Lean meats, such as chicken, turkey, fish, and seafood, are low fat and reduce symptoms of acid reflux. Try them grilled, broiled, baked, and poached.
Sources of healthy fats include avocados, walnuts, flaxseed, olive oil, sesame oil, and sunflower oil. Reduce your intake of saturated fats and trans fats and replace them with these healthier unsaturated fats.
The following foods have a high fat content. Avoid these or eat them sparingly: french fries and onion rings; full-fat dairy products, such as butter, whole milk, regular cheese, and sour cream; fatty or fried cuts of beef, pork, or lamb; bacon fat, ham fat, and lard; desserts or snacks such as ice cream and potato chips; cream sauces, gravies, and creamy salad dressings.
Take antacids and other medications that reduce acid production.
Chew gum that isn’t peppermint or spearmint flavored.
Remain upright for at least two hours after eating.
Don’t eat 3 to 4 hours before bed.
Stop smoking.
Don’t overeat.
Raise the head of your bed 4 to 6 inches to reduce reflux symptoms while sleeping.
If you have a clotting disorder, blood thinners, such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), may be recommended to prevent clots in the vessels feeding your bones.
Limit alcohol. Heavy drinking is one of the top risk factors for developing avascular necrosis.
Keep cholesterol levels low. Tiny bits of fat are the most common substance blocking blood supply to bones.
Monitor steroid use. Make sure your doctor knows about any past or present use of high-dose steroids. Steroid-related bone damage appears to worsen with repeated courses of high-dose steroids.
Some forms of hypothyroidism are caused by a lack of sufficient iodine. In such cases, using iodized salt or iodine-enriched foods can be beneficial. But eating too much iodine can have the opposite effect and suppress thyroid gland activity. Check with your doctor before taking supplements.
Although a high-fiber diet is usually recommended, too much fiber eaten right after taking thyroid medicines may interfere with their absorption. Wait two hours before you eat a high-fiber meal (one with more than about 15 grams of fiber).
Caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol can also influence the effectiveness of thyroid medicine. Ask your doctor for tips on how to regulate or reduce your consumption.
Get Your Heart Pumping. If left untreated, having low levels of thyroid hormones can reduce cardiac fitness. Those with hypothyroidism are also at a greater risk of ventricular arrhythmias, or a rapid heart beat. In addition to medications, exercise also plays a key role in strengthening the cardiovascular system.
If you have hypothyroidism, take thyroid hormone replacement medication as directed by your doctor — generally with an empty stomach. It's also important to note that too much dietary fiber can impair the absorption of synthetic thyroid hormone. Certain foods, supplements and medications can have the same effect.
Avoid taking your thyroid hormone at the same time as: Walnuts, Soybean flour, Cottonseed meal, Iron supplements or multivitamins containing iron, Calcium supplements, Antacids that contain aluminum or magnesium, Some ulcer medications, such as sucralfate (Carafate), Some cholesterol-lowering drugs, such as those containing cholestyramine (Prevalite) and colestipol (Colestid). To avoid potential interactions, eat these foods or use these products several hours before or after you take your thyroid medication.
From strawberries to blueberries to raspberries—the choice is yours. Berries pack a powerful punch because they’re bursting with antioxidants, which keep your immune system strong. Eat a serving of berries every day.
Broccoli is part of the goitrogen family—foods that can decrease the amount of thyroid hormone your thyroid gland produces. Foods that belong to this group are known as “cruciferous” foods. Not a broccoli fan? Other cruciferous veggies include cauliflower, kale, and cabbage. Eat one or more servings of these veggies a day.
Turkey is an excellent source of protein—important because your body needs protein for energy and to build and maintain muscle. Weight loss is a common hyperthyroidism symptom, so eating enough protein can help ensure you stay at a healthy weight. Don’t eat meat? No problem—you can get protein from beans and nuts. Just try to eat protein at every meal.
If you have hypothyroidism, you probably feel tired throughout the day. What helps? Establishing a sleep schedule and sticking to it helps. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day—including weekends. In general, the sweet spot for sleep is between 7 and 9 hours.
Reduce stress by listening to music, taking a long bath or meditating in a quiet place
Avoid caffeine and other stimulants as they may worsen certain symptoms such as fast heartbeat, nervousness, or concentration difficulties
Avoid food and supplements containing iodine
Get regular exercise. Exercise in general will help you feel better and improve your muscle tone and cardiovascular system. Weight-bearing exercise is important for people with Graves' disease because it helps maintain bone density. Exercise also can help reduce your appetite and increase your energy level.
Learn relaxation techniques. Many relaxation techniques can help you maintain a positive outlook, especially when coping with illness. It is well-documented that in Graves' disease stress is a risk factor, so learning to relax and achieve balance in your life can help maintain physical and mental well-being.
Get enough calcium and vitamin D. Because hyperthyroidism may contribute to thinning bones, it's important to get enough calcium every day to help prevent osteoporosis. The Institute of Medicine recommends 1,000 milligrams (mg) of calcium a day for adults ages 19 to 50 and men ages 51 to 70. That calcium recommendation increases to 1,200 mg a day if you're a woman age 51 or older or a man age 71 or older. The Institute of Medicine also recommends 600 international units (IUs) of vitamin D a day for adults ages 19 to 70 and 800 IUs a day for adults age 71 and older. Talk to your doctor about appropriate dietary guidelines for you.
Certain essential oils like frankincense and myrrh reduce stress on the body and can improve thyroid function.  Put 2 drops of frankincense oil daily on the roof of the mouth and apply 2-3 drops Myrrh oil directly to the thyroid area 2x daily.
Avoid Gluten as a gluten-free diet is beneficial for people with thyroid issues.
Avoid conventional Dairy. People with thyroid problems can also benefit from a A1 casein free diet.
Avoid Artificial flavorings or dyes. These can influence thyroid function, therefore it is best to avoid them.
Avoid Sugar as it suppresses immune function and contributes to autoimmune disease.
Avoid packaged foods as it can contain GMO foods that have been linked to autoimmune conditions.
Drink green juices. Fresh green juices from nutrient dense vegetables such as kale, spinach and spirulina can help provide vital nutrients.
Eat whole foods. Processed foods should be avoided, so aim for fresh fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins.
Eat anti-inflammatory herbs. Many herbs such as basil, rosemary, and oregano can be anti-inflammatory and help improve thyroid function.
Eat ginger as it is an anti-inflammatory herb that can help boost immune function.
Eat bone broth. Bone broth supports detoxification and aids in healing of leaky gut issues that can make hyperthyroidism worse.
Drink lots of water.
Take a warm bath.
Apply a heating pad to the abdomen.
Avoid coffee, citrus juices, spicy foods, and alcohol.
Drink plenty of water to help you urinate more frequently and flush bacteria out of your urinary tract before an infection begins.
Urinate as soon as possible after sexual intercourse.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement to prevent bacteria from spreading to the urethra from the anal region.
Avoid using feminine products near the genital area that can irritate the urethra, such as douches, deodorant sprays, and powders.
Maintain personal hygiene and wash your genitals every day.
Take showers instead of baths.
Avoid using birth control methods that can lead to bacterial growth, such as diaphragms or spermicide-treated condoms.
Don’t delay using the toilet for too long if you have the urge to urinate.
Drink plenty of fluids to keep yourself hydrated. Avoid coffee, alcohol, soft drinks with caffeine and citrus juices — as well as spicy foods — until your infection clears. These items can irritate the bladder and aggravate a frequent or urgent need to urinate.
Soak in a bathtub of warm water (sitz bath) for 15 to 20 minutes to help relieve pain or discomfort.
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking lots of fluids is especially important if you're getting chemotherapy or radiation therapy, particularly on treatment days.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement. This prevents bacteria in the anal region from spreading to the vagina and urethra.
Take showers rather than tub baths. If you're susceptible to infections, showering rather than bathing may help prevent them.
Gently wash the skin around the vagina and anus. Do this daily, but don't use harsh soaps or wash too vigorously. The delicate skin around these areas can become irritated.
Empty your bladder as soon as possible after intercourse. Drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid using deodorant sprays or feminine products in the genital area. These products can irritate the urethra and bladder.
If you can, swap canned fruits and vegetables for their fresh or frozen counterparts. The potassium in canned goods leaches into the water or juice in the can. If you use this juice in your meal or drink it, it can cause a spike in your potassium levels.
If you have CKD, you should have your potassium checked once a month by your doctor. They’ll do this with a simple blood test. The blood test will determine your monthly level of potassium millimoles per liter of blood (mmol/L).
If you’re at an Italian restaurant, skip the sausage and pepperoni. Instead, stick to a simple salad and pasta with non-tomato-based sauce.
If you’re eating Indian food, go for the curry dishes or Tandoori chicken. Be sure to avoid lentils.
Choose dishes with steamed, instead of fried, rice. Don’t add soy sauce, fish sauce, or anything containing MSG into your meal.
You should decrease the fat, salt, protein, and potassium in your diet. Reducing salt and fluid intake can help control blood pressure and prevent fluid overload. Be sure to still get adequate calories to maintain your weight. If you have diabetes, restrict your carbohydrate intake.
Be sure you get adequate exercise. Quitting smoking if you smoke can also help.
Do the DASH. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. It’s a diet rich in fruits, veggies, low-fat dairy products, whole grains, fish, poultry, beans, seeds, and nuts. It’s low in salt and sodium, sugars and sweets, fats, and red meats.
Cut the Sodium. This mineral is found naturally in many foods. It’s most common in table salt.
Avoid table salt and high-sodium seasonings (soy sauce, sea salt, garlic salt, etc.)
Cook at home -- most fast foods are high in sodium
Try new spices and herbs in place of salt
Read the labels when shopping and choose foods that are low-sodium
Rinse canned foods (veggies, beans, meats, and fish) with water before serving
Limit Phosphorous and Calcium
Choose foods with low levels of phosphorous (look for “PHOS” on the label)
Eat more fresh fruits and veggies
Choose corn and rice cereals
Drink light-colored sodas
Cut back on meat, poultry, and fish
Limit dairy foods
Choose whole fruits instead of dried fruits -- the latter contains more sugar -- and fruit juices.
Reduce alcohol consumption because it interferes with the liver’s processing of fatty acids and increases triglycerides.
Eat lots of low-carbohydrate vegetables like broccoli, spinach, leafy greens, onions and peppers and choose whole grain products.
Add Healthy Fats to your Diet to Manage Dyslipidemia. There are many fats which are actually good for you and can aid you reduce cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Good sources of healthy fats which can be included in your diet include fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, olive oils, canola oils seeds, nuts, avocados etc.
Add Low Carbohydrate Vegetables and Whole Fruits. You must take low carbohydrate vegetables like spinach, broccoli, leafy greens, peppers, onions etc in your diet to manage dyslipidemia. Apart from this, it is essential to add whole fruits instead of dried fruits. It is also essential to watch your intake of refined carbohydrates like white bread and sugary foods and beverages.
Add Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Your Diet.
Reduce Dietary Cholesterol Intake.
Reduce Saturated Fat Intake. Substitute low saturated fat foods like lean meats, low-fat dairy products etc for high- saturated-fat foods like butter, ice cream, cheese, full-fat dairy products, sausage, bacon, fatty meats, donuts etc.
Choose healthier fats. Saturated fat and trans fat raise your total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. The most common sources of saturated fat in the diet are red meat, processed meats and dairy products that are not fat-free. Monounsaturated fat — found in olive and canola oils — is a healthier option. Avocados, almonds, pecans and walnuts are other sources of healthy fat.
Avoid trans fats. Trans fats, which are often found in margarines and commercially baked cookies, crackers and snack cakes, are particularly bad for your cholesterol levels. Not only do trans fats increase your total LDL ("bad") cholesterol, but they also lower your HDL ("good") cholesterol. Foods listing "partially hydrogenated oils" in the ingredients contain trans fats.
Limit your dietary cholesterol. The most concentrated sources of cholesterol include organ meats, egg yolks and whole milk products. Use lean cuts of meat and skim milk instead. Limit the intake of eggs to no more than 7 a week.
Select whole grains. Various nutrients found in whole grains promote heart health. Choose whole-grain breads, whole-wheat pasta, whole-wheat flour and brown rice. Oatmeal and oat bran are other good choices.
Eat heart-healthy fish. Some types of fish — such as cod, tuna and halibut — have less total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol than do meat and poultry. Salmon, mackerel and herring are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which help promote heart health.
Drink alcohol only in moderation. Moderate use of alcohol may increase your levels of HDL cholesterol — but the benefits aren't strong enough to recommend alcohol for anyone who doesn't drink already. If you choose to drink, do so in moderation. This means no more than one drink a day for women and one to two drinks a day for men.
Lose extra pounds. Excess weight contributes to high cholesterol. Losing even 5 to 10 pounds can help lower total cholesterol levels. Start by taking an honest look at your eating habits and daily routine. Consider your challenges to weight loss — and ways to overcome them. Set long-term, sustainable goals.
Exercise regularly. Regular exercise can help improve your cholesterol levels. With your doctor's OK, work up to 30 to 60 minutes of exercise a day. Take a brisk daily walk. Ride your bike. Swim laps. To maintain your motivation, keep it fun. Find an exercise buddy or join an exercise group. And you don't need to get all 30 to 60 minutes in one exercise session. If you can squeeze in three to six 10-minute intervals of exercise, you'll still get some benefits. If you are not doing any exercise at all right now, try even 15 minutes of exercise a day several days of the week. Some exercise is much better than no exercise.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, stop. Cigarette smoking increases your risk of heart disease because it damages your blood vessels and speeds up the accumulation of plaque within arteries.
Choose low-impact activities that you enjoy, such as walking, cycling or water exercises. And remember that duration is more important than intensity.
Reduce intake of saturated fats and trans fats.
Limit alcoholic drinks to one or two per day. One drink per day for women; two per day for men.
Follow the Portfolio Diet. Mainly vegetarian diet with soy and other vegetable proteins, plant sterols, almonds, and soluble fiber
Engage in aerobic exercise. At least 120 minutes per week
Avoid Sugar and refined grain products
Avoid Hydrogenated fats — Vegetable oils are pro-inflammatory and may increase cholesterol.
Avoid Trans fats — These increase LDL cholesterol, inflammation and risk of cardiovascular disease.
Avoid Conventional dairy products (non-organic, homogenized and pasteurized)
Avoid Factory-farmed animal products
Add a variety of spices to your daily diet, such as basil, rosemary and turmeric, which all contain antioxidants that are cardioprotective and help lower cholesterol naturally.
avoid carbonation or caffeine
limit liquids before bed
avoid spicy or acidic foods, which irritate the urinary tract
eat plenty of fiber to avoid constipation
Learn something new, such as a second language or a musical instrument.
Play board games with your kids or grandkids. Or get your friends together for a weekly game of cards. Mix it up by trying new games. The extra bonus of activities like these? Social connections also help your brain.
Play online memory games or video games.
Keep a Routine
Limit the Amount of Sound and Movement: People with Alzheimer's can be easily overwhelmed by crowds and noise
Try not to shop in crowds.
Gather in small groups
Keep the TV off during other activities. 
You can reduce the chance that you will get a migraine by avoiding the foods and drinks that may trigger them. Pay attention to what you’ve eaten; you may notice a pattern. Keeping a food diary can help you identify something that upsets your body and leads to an episode.
Make sure you’re getting enough sleep and rest.
Drink plenty of water.
Take up stress-reducing activities like meditation and gardening.
When the weather is hot and sticky, keep yourself hydrated. Exercise in a cool, temperature-controlled environment if possible, such as an air-conditioned gym, or wait until the worst of the heat and humidity has passed. Consider switching your workout time to the early morning when it’s generally cooler, especially during hot summer months.
If you’ve recently moved to or are visiting a location at high altitude, wait two days before beginning your exercise regimen. This will allow your body to get used to the lower oxygen levels.
If you’ve recently moved to or are visiting a location at high altitude, drinking more fluids and staying away from alcohol can also help.
Spend 15 minutes warming up before engaging in intense activity and five minutes cooling down afterward.
Dehydration may be a trigger for migraines. Carry a water bottle with you while you exercise, and sip often.
Stick to regular eating and sleeping times
Reduce stress and anxiety
Cut back on caffeinated and alcoholic beverages
Take  OTC nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen or naproxen
Take anti-inflammatory drugs, such as indomethacin, or blood pressure medication, such as propranolol, which have been shown to help prevent headaches
Engage in professional medical detoxification or detox programs to treat alcoholism
follow a low-salt diet
take diuretics to increase the removal of water and salt from your body through urination
limit how much fluid you drink to ease pressure on your heart from fluid retention
If you’re over 65 and/or have numerous health conditions, you’re more at risk for delirium.
Learn how to say no: Feeling overwhelmed can worsen anxiety and depression symptoms. Setting boundaries in your professional and personal life can help you feel better.
Take care of yourself: You can also improve symptoms of depression by taking care of yourself. This includes getting plenty of sleep, eating a healthy diet, avoiding negative people, and participating in enjoyable activities.
Try cutting out extra responsibilities and stressors in your life. Give yourself room to breathe when you’re feeling down.
Add more structure to your day. You can set reminders on your phone when you have events or other can’t-miss responsibilities.
Consider journaling. This can be a healthy outlet for you to openly and honestly divulge feelings of sadness, anger, or fear.
Seek out groups that help with mental health. Your employer or church may have an assistance program that can help. You can also check out the National Alliance on Mental Illness and the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance.
Try not to isolate yourself. Although this can be difficult when you’re feeling low, having a support network around you has a number of benefits.
If you’re interested in this potential therapy and live in an area where medicinal marijuana is legal, consider discussing this with your doctor. They can work with you to determine whether this is an option for you.
Join a sports team or studio (like yoga or kickboxing); where you’ll be part of a community in addition to being active.
Take the stairs instead of the elevator.
Make it a habit: This is the best way to maintain the fitness level that is most effective in preventing depression.
Make sure that you’re regularly connecting with friends and family, even when your lives are busy. Attending social events when you can and finding new hobbies that could help you meet new people can all help you build new relationships too.
Learn to be decisive more quickly.
Reduce the decisions you’ll have to make during the work week: Plan out your outfits, and have your meals prepped and ready to go.
Avoid overcommitting to things.
Learn to let things go that you can’t control.
Cut people out of your life who take advantage of you.
Eat balanced meals with lean protein, and lots of fruits and vegetables.
Reduce high-sugar and high-fat foods.
Eliminate processed foods from your diet as much as possible.
Incorporate more omega-3s into your diet, with foods like salmon or nuts.
If you’re exercising regularly, getting enough sleep, and eating well, maintaining a healthy weight should fall into place.
Consult your doctor if your condition or symptoms get worse.
Follow your treatment plan carefully.
Take your medications and make lifestyle changes as recommended.
Read prescription medication side effects carefully
A number of different prescription medications can cause depression as a side effect. Read prescription labels carefully before taking them. You can talk to your doctor and see if other medications or treatments can resolve your condition without depression as a side effect.
Limit alcohol intake, and eliminate any drug use as safely as possible.
If you are experiencing anxiety, it’s important to reduce stress in your life. Find ways to relax. Exercise is a great way to relieve stress.
Take walks regularly
Join an exercise class or gym
Practice yoga
take breaks from your routine to manage stress
make time for a hobby you enjoy to manage stress
eat a healthy diet to manage stress
keep a journal to manage stress
avoid unhealthy substances to manage stress
In addition to exercise, you might want to take breaks from your routine or plan a vacation. If you enjoy a particular hobby, make time for it. Do things that make you feel better and more relaxed.
Don’t stress over food choices, but try to eat a wide variety of fresh, healthy foods. Include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains whenever possible.
Avoid greasy, sugary, high-fat, processed foods. Remember that what feeds your body also feeds your brain.
If you are addicted and need help to quit, talk to your doctor or find a support group.
Remember that you can practice healthy habits at home to reduce fatigue-related symptoms if you experience lethargy. Examples include: drinking plenty of fluids, eating a healthy diet, getting plenty of sleep, reducing stress levels
Start the Day With Gentle Activity. Slow, gentle activity in the morning can help wake up tired muscles and stiff joints. Just take it easy on your spine. Deep, relaxed breathing when you wake up may also be helpful. But certain moves aren't recommended if you have back pain -- ask your health care provider what's best for you.
Sit Comfortably. If your job requires you to sit for long periods, make sure your chair has a straight back, an adjustable seat, and armrests. Some people prefer more lumbar support than others. If you need extra support, place a rolled towel behind the lower part of your back. Resting your feet on a low stool can also help ease back pain when sitting.
Work Ergonomically. If you spend most of your day at a computer, your work station can affect your back’s health. You shouldn’t have to lean forward to reach your keyboard or see your monitor. Instead, move them closer, so you can keep your elbows at your side as you work. You should also adjust your computer screen so it is just at or below eye level.
Practice Good Phone Posture. Your shoulder may make a great phone rest when you need to multitask in a pinch. But this posture is a common cause of neck pain and can also contribute to poor alignment in the back. When you need to make a hands-free call, use a shoulder support, headset, or the speaker function on your phone instead.
Taking the stairs is often suggested as a way to fit more exercise into your day. But walking up stairs may not be the best exercise for some people with low back pain, especially older adults and those with knee problems. So before you head for the stairwell, ask your doctor whether taking the stairs is the right option for you.
Avoid alcohol.
See your doctor if your headaches are frequent or last more than a few days. Get immediate medical help if your headache is sudden and severe, occurs after a head injury, or is the worst you have ever had. It’s also important to get urgent care if your headache is accompanied by fever, stiff neck, seizures, numbness, double vision, dizziness, severe nausea, shortness of breath, or confusion.
When choosing dairy products, choose low-fat options.
Limit quick-digesting foods that may cause a spike in your blood sugar levels.
Work in the 3 types of exercises: aerobic (aka cardio), strengthening, and flexibility. Exercises to try: Walking, light weight lifting, and yoga. Talk to your doctor before trying a new exercise program.
Stay away from refined foods, shellfish, wheat, diary products and alcohol
Urinate frequently. If you feel the urge to urinate, don't delay using the toilet.
Stay away from packaged foods, if possible -- these tend to be high in sodium
Reduce Your Potassium Intake. Potassium is found in a lot of fruits and veggies, like bananas, potatoes, avocados, and melons. These foods can affect potassium levels in your blood. Your doctor will let you know if you need to limit this mineral in your diet. If so, he may recommend you try low-potassium foods, like: Apples and apple juice, Cranberries and cranberry juice, Strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, Plums, Pineapples, Cabbage, Boiled cauliflower.
Increase Intake of Healthy Fats. Good sources of healthy fats include fatty fish like salmon and tuna, nuts, seeds, olive oil, canola oil and avocados.
Trim Excess of Calories.
Trim Excess Alcohol Intake:
Stock up on fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables are rich in dietary fiber, which can help lower cholesterol. Snack on seasonal fruits. Experiment with vegetable-based casseroles, soups and stir-fries.
Once your cardiovascular fitness begins to improve, add low-resistance, high-repetition strength training, such as circuit training.
Increase intake of poly-and monounsaturated fats
Increase intake of soluble fiber
Isocalorically increase consumption of tree nuts
Increase intake of soy protein
Increase intake of plant stanols and sterols.
Increase intake of omega-3 fatty acids from marine sources.
Follow a Mediterranean diet. Olive oil is main dietary fat; moderate wine consumption; limited amounts of red meat, dairy products, eggs, and poultry; increased amounts of vegetables, whole grains, fish, and tree nuts
Too much caffeine can increase cholesterol levels. Limit coffee or tea to no more than one to two cups per day.
Avoid Too much alcohol.
exercise regularly
Work on crossword, number, or other kinds of puzzles.
Read, write, or sign up for local adult education classes.
In the evening, Turn on more lights. She may be more comfortable in well-lit rooms.
Exercise regularly.
Talk to your doctor if you think you drink heavily. They can help you quit drinking in a safe environment and prevent serious symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.
Alternative therapies: Ask your doctor about acupuncture or meditation. Some herbal supplements are also used to treat depression, such as St. John’s Wort, SAMe, and fish oil.
Talk with your doctor before taking a supplement or combining a supplement with prescription medication. Doing this will help prevent complications and side effects.
Exercise: Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity three to five days a week. Exercise can increase your body's production of endorphins, which are hormones that improve your mood.
Avoid alcohol and drugs: Drinking or using drugs may make you feel better for a little bit. But in the long run, these substances can worsen depression and anxiety symptoms.
Discover new and fun ways to relieve stress and bad emotions. It could be as simple as taking a daily walk, striking some yoga poses, or trying meditation.
Practice mindfulness or meditation.
Stay away from anyone who makes you feel worse about yourself.
Know the signs. If someone spreads rumors or talks badly about someone as soon as they leave the room, they’re likely to do the same for you.
Order an appetizer instead of a drink at happy hour.
Plan and invite friends to events where alcohol isn’t central.
Order cranberry juice; you don’t have to tell anyone it doesn’t have vodka in it.
To stop smoking, Focus on your reason for quitting and remind yourself of this every time you’re tempted.
To stop smoking; Focus on your reason for quitting and remind yourself of this every time you’re tempted.
To stop smoking, Tell your friends and ask them to help hold you accountable.
To stop smoking, Quit at the same time as a friend.
exercise regularly to manage stress
Avoid Processed Foods
Eat fresh food
Work with a mental health professional to plan what to do when you think a mood swing might happen. Ask for more help from family and friends. Have them check in more often so you get extra support.
Take medications as directed. If you are taking any medications for ADHD or any other condition, take them exactly as prescribed. Taking two doses at once to catch up on missed doses can be bad for you and others. If you notice side effects or other problems, talk to your doctor as soon as possible.
Organize. Make lists of daily tasks (be reasonable!) and work to complete them. Use a daily planner, leave notes for yourself, and set your alarm clock when you need to remember an appointment or other activity.
Breathe slowly. If you have a tendency to do things you later regret, such as interrupt others or get angry at others, manage the impulse by pausing. Count to 10 while you breathe slowly instead of acting out. Usually the impulse will pass as quickly as it appeared.
Cut down on distractions. If you find yourself being distracted by loud music or the television, turn it off or use earplugs. Move yourself to a quieter location, or ask others to help make things less distracting.
Burn off extra energy. You may need a way to get rid of some energy if you’re hyperactive or feel restless. Exercise, a hobby, or another pastime can be good choices.
Ask for help. We all need help from time to time, and it's important to not be afraid to ask for it. If you have disruptive thoughts or behaviors, ask a counselor if they have any ideas you can try that could help you control them.
Immediate rewards: Try using a point system or other means of immediate rewards for good behavior or work.
Timeouts: Use a timeout when your child becomes too unruly or out of control. For some children, being pulled out of a stressful or overstimulating situation can help them learn how to react more appropriately the next time a similar situation comes up.
Togetherness: Find time together every week to share a pleasurable or relaxing activity. During this time together, you can look for opportunities to point out what your child does well and praise their strengths and abilities.
Striving for success: Structure situations in a way that allows your child to find success. For instance, you might allow them to have only one or two playmates at a time so they don’t get overstimulated.
Stress management: Use methods such as meditation, relaxation techniques, and exercise to help manage stress.
Build a schedule: Set the same routine every day. Try to make sure that waking up, bedtime, homework, and even playtime are done at consistent times. Post the schedule in a visible place. If a change must be made, make it as far in advance as possible.
Organize everyday items: Make sure that clothing, backpacks, school supplies, and play items all have a designated, clearly marked space.
Use homework and notebook organizers: Stress the importance of writing down assignments and bringing home anything needed to complete homework.
Ask about using a computer in class: For some children with ADHD, handwriting is another obstacle to success. If necessary, see if their teacher will allow for computer use in the classroom.
Use positive reinforcement: Children with ADHD often receive criticism from authority figures. Then they start to expect it. If they get only negative feedback without ever hearing positive things about themselves, they'll start to think of themselves as bad.
To boost your child's self-esteem and reinforce appropriate behavior, use positive reinforcement. If your child follows the rules and behaves well, give small rewards and praise. This lets them know what behavior you prefer, while letting them know that they can be good.
Don’t Use illicit drugs as they can cause another episode.
Don't Drink too much alcohol - remember the safe alcohol drinking limits of 21 units per week for a man and 14 units per week for a woman.
Don’t  Get stressed.
Don’t Smoke cigarettes - 30 to 40 people out of a 100 with mental health problems smoke. They may help you to relax and focus your thoughts in the short-term but interferes with your medication and is very harmful to your body in the long-term.
This medication may rarely make your blood sugar level rise, which can cause or worsen diabetes. Rarely, very serious conditions such as diabetic coma may occur. Tell your doctor right away if you develop symptoms of high blood sugar, such as increased thirst and urination. If you already have diabetes, be sure to check your blood sugars regularly.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy or cause blurred vision. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
This medication may make you sweat less, making you more likely to get heat stroke. Avoid doing things that may cause you to overheat, such as hard work or exercise in hot weather, or using hot tubs.
If you overheat, quickly look for a place to cool down and rest.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk. Breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
WARNING:  Taking too much acetaminophen may cause serious (possibly fatal) liver disease. Adults should not take more than 4000 milligrams (4 grams) of acetaminophen a day. People with liver problems and children should take less acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how much acetaminophen is safe to take.
Do not take this medication for fever for more than 3 days unless directed by your doctor.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant before using this medication.
Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you are already taking another anti-diabetic drug (such as metformin or a sulfonylurea), follow your doctor's directions carefully for stopping/continuing the old drug and starting this medication.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase the risk of developing low blood sugar.
This medication should be used only when clearly needed during pregnancy. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor. Your doctor may substitute insulin for this drug during your pregnancy.
It is not known whether this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Consult your doctor to see if you need to take calcium/vitamin D supplements and discuss lifestyle changes that might benefit you.
Do not take a dose of this drug unless you have time for a full night's sleep of at least 7 to 8 hours. If you have to wake up before that, you may have some memory loss and may have trouble safely doing any activity that requires alertness, such as driving or operating machinery.
Do not take more than 12. 5 milligrams a day.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activities that require clear thinking after you take this medication and the next day. You may feel alert, but this medication may continue to affect your thinking, making such activities unsafe.
Do not drink alcoholic beverages.
A small amount of this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Consult your doctor before treating a child younger than 12 years.
Take this medication by mouth.
Drink a full glass of water (8 ounces/240 milliliters) with it unless your doctor tells you otherwise.
Do not lie down for at least 10 minutes after you have taken this drug.
Do not crush or chew extended-release tablets or capsules. Doing so can release all of the drug at once, increasing the risk of side effects.
Also, do not split extended-release tablets unless they have a score line and your doctor or pharmacist tells you to do so. Swallow the whole or split tablet without crushing or chewing.
If you have any of the following health problems, consult your doctor or pharmacist before using this medication: kidney disease, liver disease, diabetes, stomach problems (such as ulcers, heartburn, stomach pain), aspirin-sensitive asthma (a history of worsening breathing with runny/stuffy nose after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs), growths in the nose (nasal polyps), gout, certain enzyme deficiencies (pyruvate kinase or G6PD deficiency).
Consult your doctor before using this medication if you are or think you may be pregnant.
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking this medication.
Do not use this medication during the last 3 months of pregnancy because of possible harm to the unborn baby or problems during delivery.
Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check all prescription and nonprescription medicine labels carefully since many medications contain pain relievers/fever reducers known as NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, ketorolac, naproxen).
If you are taking low-dose aspirin for prevention of heart attack/stroke, consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details and to discuss other possible treatments (such as acetaminophen) for your pain/fever.
This medication may interfere with certain laboratory tests (including certain urine sugar tests), possibly causing false test results. Make sure laboratory personnel and all your doctors know you are taking this medication.
You may mix the measured dose with a small amount of juice, water, soda, applesauce or pudding. Stir in one dose and mix gently for a few seconds. After preparing one dose, drink or eat the entire mixture right away. Do not prepare a supply for future use.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
This drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Drink plenty of fluids while taking this medication to lower the unlikely risk of kidney stones forming, unless your doctor advises you otherwise.
Tell your doctor right away if you develop: persistent diarrhea, abdominal or stomach pain/cramping, blood/mucus in your stool.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of these symptoms because these products may make them worse.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths or sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
If you have diabetes, this product may affect your blood sugar levels.
While there have been no reports of harm to healthy infants, this drug may have undesirable effects on infants who are ill or premature or have certain disorders (jaundice, high blood levels of bilirubin, G6PD deficiency). Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended for infants with these conditions. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you use hormonal birth control, ask your doctor or pharmacist for more details.
This product may interfere with certain laboratory tests, possibly causing false test results. Make sure laboratory personnel and all your doctors know you use this product.
Drink plenty of fluids while using this medication unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
If you are using this medication at home, learn all preparation and usage instructions from your health care professional.
Avoid mixing ceftriaxone with IV fluids that have calcium in them (such as Ringer's solution, Hartmann's solution, parenteral nutrition-TPN/PPN).
Use this drug at evenly spaced intervals.
This medication may rarely cause a severe intestinal condition (Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea) due to a type of resistant bacteria. This condition may occur during treatment or weeks to months after treatment has stopped. Tell your doctor right away if you develop: diarrhea that doesn't stop, abdominal or stomach pain/cramping, blood/mucus in your stool.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of these symptoms because these products may make them worse.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.
Take this medication with a full glass of water (8 ounces or 240 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Do not lie down for 10 minutes after taking this medication.
Drink plenty of fluids as directed by your doctor to prevent dehydration and tell your doctor right away if you have a change in the amount of urine.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
Take this medication with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing escitalopram while using citalopram.
Take this medication with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing escitalopram while using citalopram.
Take this medication by mouth, usually at bedtime with a full glass (8 ounces or 240 milliliters) of water or juice, or as directed by your doctor.
If you have any of the following health problems, consult your doctor or pharmacist before using this medication: severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, sudden change in bowel habits over the previous 2 weeks.
It is not known if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Avoid sudden large increases or decreases in your intake of foods high in vitamin K (such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, kale, spinach, and other green leafy vegetables, liver, green tea, certain vitamin supplements).
If you are trying to lose weight, check with your doctor before you try to go on a diet.
Limit alcoholic beverages. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how much alcohol you may safely drink.
If you fall or injure yourself, especially if you hit your head, call your doctor right away.
Discuss with your doctor the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication and for 1 month after stopping the medication.
If you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant, tell your doctor right away.
If you are planning pregnancy, discuss a plan for managing your condition with your doctor before you become pregnant.
Very small amounts of this medication may pass into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
WARNING:  This drug can cause serious (possibly fatal) harm to an unborn baby if used during pregnancy. Therefore, it is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication. Consult your doctor for more details and to discuss the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, contact your doctor right away.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily with or without food.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen) because they may contain ingredients that could increase your blood pressure or worsen your heart failure.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Avoid contact with people who have infections that may spread to others (such as chickenpox, measles, flu).
Do not have immunizations/vaccinations without the consent of your doctor.
Avoid contact with people who have recently received live vaccines (such as flu vaccine inhaled through the nose).
Take this medication by mouth, usually once or twice daily after a meal or snack or as directed by your doctor.
If you are taking 2 doses each day, it may help to take 1 of the doses at bedtime.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
If you are also taking cholestyramine, colestipol, or psyllium, wait at least 2 hours after taking your digoxin dose before taking any of these products.
If you are taking antacids, kaolin-pectin, milk of magnesia, metoclopramide, sulfasalazine, or aminosalicylic acid, take them as far apart from your digoxin dose as possible.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Certain drugs such as "water pills" (diuretics) may affect the normal balance of these minerals. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking a "water pill" or if you have a history of mineral imbalance.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist whether you should take a nutritional supplement or follow a special diet.
Some products have ingredients that could worsen your heart failure. Tell your pharmacist what products you are using, and ask how to use them safely (especially cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen/naproxen).
It is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication. Consult your doctor for more details and to discuss the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, contact your doctor right away.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Some products have ingredients that could raise your blood pressure or worsen your heart failure. Tell your pharmacist what products you are using, and ask how to use them safely (especially cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen/naproxen).
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily with food, either in the morning or evening.
Drink a glass of water after each dose.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily, at least 1 hour before a meal.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of the following symptoms because these products may make them worse.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. However, similar drugs pass into breast milk. The effects on a nursing infant are unknown. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use any medications containing omeprazole while using esomeprazole.
If you are treating a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your doctor about non-drug treatments and/or using other medications to treat your pain.
Do not lie down for at least 10 minutes after taking this drug.
Drink plenty of fluids as directed by your doctor to prevent dehydration and tell your doctor right away if you have a change in the amount of urine.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths or sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
This medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check all prescription and nonprescription medicine labels carefully since many medications contain pain relievers/fever reducers (aspirin, NSAIDs such as celecoxib, ibuprofen, or ketorolac). These drugs are similar to piroxicam and may increase your risk of side effects if taken together.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
Select a dry, non-hairy area on a flat part of your body, such as the chest, sides, back, or upper arms.
If there is hair on the skin, use scissors to clip the hair as close as possible to the skin. Do not shave hair since this might cause skin irritation. If needed, use water to clean the area. Do not use soap, oils, lotions, or alcohol on the application site. Dry the skin well before applying the patch.
Do not let children see you apply a patch, and do not apply the patch where children can see it. Children have found patches that have fallen off or removed patches on sleeping adults and put them in their mouths or on their bodies with fatal results.
If the patch comes off and accidentally sticks to the skin of another person, immediately remove the patch, wash the area with water, and get medical help for them right away. Do not use soap, alcohol, or other products to wash the area.
Tell your doctor right away if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: mental/mood changes (such as agitation, confusion, hallucinations), severe stomach/abdominal pain, difficulty urinating, slow/fast/pounding heartbeat, signs of your adrenal glands not working well (such as loss of appetite, unusual tiredness, weight loss).
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
Avoid activities that might cause your body temperature to rise. (such as doing strenuous work/exercise in hot weather).
If you are going to have an MRI test, tell testing personnel that you are using this patch. Some patches may contain metals that can cause serious burns during an MRI.
Ask your doctor whether you will need to remove your patch before the test and apply a new patch afterward, and how to do so properly.
This drug passes into breast milk and may rarely have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Tell the doctor right away if your baby develops unusual sleepiness, difficulty feeding, or trouble breathing.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before treatment with this medication.
Do not drink alcohol while using this medication and for at least 24 hours after treatment. Drinking alcohol while using this medication may cause stomach cramps, flushing, nausea, vomiting, and headache.
Do not have vaginal sex or use tampons or douches while using this medication.
The medication in this product may pass into breast milk in small amounts. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use this medication if you have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks.
Do not take products containing alcohol or propylene glycol while using this medication and for at least 24 hours after treatment.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily, 30 minutes after the same meal each day.
Swallow this medication whole.
Do not crush, chew, or open the capsules.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you are also taking a drug to treat erectile dysfunction-ED or pulmonary hypertension (such as sildenafil, tadalafil), your blood pressure may get too low which can lead to dizziness or fainting.
If you have diabetes, fluoxetine may affect your blood sugar levels. Monitor your blood sugar regularly and share the results with your doctor.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy with your doctor.
This drug may pass into breast milk and could have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Taking MAO inhibitors with his medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for 2 weeks before and at least 5 weeks after treatment with this medication.
Follow the diet plan recommended by your doctor or dietician.
Consult your doctor or dietician for a diet plan rich in folate/folic acid.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once a day with the evening meal.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Gabapentin passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine, morphine).
Do not use this medication with other medications that contain gabapentin (including gabapentin enacarbil).
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast or the first main meal of the day, as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
If you are taking colesevelam, take glimepiride at least 4 hours before taking colesevelam.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar.
Pregnancy may cause or worsen diabetes. Discuss a plan with your doctor for managing your blood sugar while pregnant.
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
If you are already taking another anti-diabetic drug (such as chlorpropamide), follow your doctor's directions carefully for stopping the old drug and starting glipizide.
Check with your doctor or pharmacist to find out what you should do if you miss a meal.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar. Alcohol can rarely interact with glipizide and cause a serious reaction (disulfiram-like reaction) with symptoms such as facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or stomach pain. Consult your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcohol.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. However, similar drugs pass into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar. Alcohol can rarely interact with glipizide and cause a serious reaction (disulfiram-like reaction) with symptoms such as facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or stomach pain. Consult your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcohol.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths, and sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Pregnancy may cause or worsen diabetes. Discuss a plan with your doctor for managing your blood sugar while pregnant. Your doctor may change your diabetes treatment during your pregnancy (such as diet and medications including insulin).
If you are injecting heparin into a vein, flush the catheter/line with normal saline before and after infusing drugs that interact with heparin such as doxorubicin, droperidol, ciprofloxacin, and mitoxantrone.
Daily use of alcohol while using this medicine will increase your risk for stomach bleeding. Limit alcoholic beverages. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how much alcohol you may safely drink.
This medication does not pass into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor if you smoke or if you have recently stopped smoking.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
If you have diabetes, hydrochlorothiazide may affect your blood sugar levels. Check your blood sugar levels regularly as directed by your doctor.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
This drug passes into breast milk, but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily when you wake up. Swallow this medication whole with a half glass of water (4 ounces/120 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use medications containing isosorbide dinitrate while using isosorbide mononitrate.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually 2 or 3 times daily.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately talk to your doctor about the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as allergy or cough-and-cold products) because they may contain ingredients that cause drowsiness.
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Current information shows that this drug may be used during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant because your dose may need to be adjusted.
Levothyroxine passes into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while using this medication because it can increase the risk of developing low blood sugar.
This medication passes into breast milk, but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding. Your insulin needs may change while breast-feeding.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths, and sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy or cause blurred vision. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
This drug passes into breast milk and may affect milk production. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen) because they may contain ingredients that could increase your blood pressure or swelling (edema).
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Current information shows that this drug may be used during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant because your dose may need to be adjusted.
Levothyroxine passes into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing citalopram while using escitalopram.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice while using this medication unless your doctor instructs you otherwise. Grapefruit can increase the amount of this medication in your bloodstream.
If you also take certain other drugs to lower your cholesterol (bile acid-binding resins such as cholestyramine or colestipol), take atorvastatin at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after taking these medications. These products can react with atorvastatin, preventing its full absorption.
Remember to take it at the same time each day.
Limit alcoholic beverages. Daily use of alcohol may increase your risk for liver problems, especially when combined with atorvastatin.
Do not take any red yeast rice products while you are taking atorvastatin because some red yeast rice products may also contain a statin called lovastatin. Taking atorvastatin and red yeast rice products together can increase your risk of serious muscle and liver problems.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Be sure to drink enough fluids to prevent dehydration unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually 3-4 times daily. Take lithium with or immediately after meals to lessen stomach upset.
Drink 8 to 12 glasses (8 ounces or 240 milliliters each) of water or other fluid each day, and eat a healthy diet with normal amounts of salt (sodium) as directed by your doctor or dietician while taking this medication. Large changes in the amount of salt in your diet may change your lithium blood levels. Do not change the amount of salt in your diet unless your doctor tells you to do so.
To reduce the risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.
When the weather is hot, drink a lot of fluids and dress lightly.
Avoid alcohol.
For adults, do not take this product for pain for more than 10 days (5 days in children) unless directed by your doctor.
Carefully follow the medication treatment plan, meal plan, and exercise program your doctor has recommended.
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other salicylates (such as choline salicylate); or to other pain relievers or fever reducers (NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen); or if you have any other allergies.
Before using this medicine, consult your doctor or pharmacist if you have: bleeding/blood-clotting disorders (such as hemophilia, vitamin K deficiency, low platelet count).
Before using this product, consult your doctor if you have recently received certain live vaccines (such as varicella vaccine, live flu vaccine).
To help you remember, use it at the same time(s) each day.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: kidney disease, liver disease, glaucoma, lung/breathing problems (such as sleep apnea), mental/mood disorders (such as depression, psychosis), drug/alcohol abuse.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: kidney disease, liver disease, certain blood disorders (such as porphyria, anemia due to folate vitamin deficiency), history of blood disorders caused by trimethoprim or sulfa medications, vitamin deficiency (folate or folic acid), severe allergies, asthma, decreased bone marrow function (bone marrow suppression), a certain metabolic disorder (G6PD deficiency), underactive thyroid, mineral imbalances (such as high level of potassium or low level of sodium in the blood).
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: asthma (including a history of worsening breathing after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs), liver disease, stomach/intestine/esophagus problems (such as bleeding, ulcers, recurring heartburn), heart disease (such as angina, heart attack), high blood pressure, stroke, blood disorders (such as anemia, bleeding/clotting problems), growths in the nose (nasal polyps).
To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
Before using citalopram, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, recent heart attack, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).
To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
