Eat a diet rich in vegetables and fruits.
Choose whole-grain, high-fiber foods.
Eat fish at least twice a week.
Limit saturated fat and trans fat. Avoiding partially hydrogenated oils will reduce trans fats.
Choose lean meats and poultry, and prepare them without using saturated or trans fats.
Select low-fat dairy products.
Cut back on drinks and foods with added sugars. The AHA recommends that no more than half of your discretionary calories should come from added sugars. For most American women, the discretionary calorie allowance is no more than 100 calories and no more than 150 calories for men.
Choose and prepare foods with little salt (sodium). The AHA recommends consuming less than 1500 mg of sodium a day.
If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Limit yourself to one drink per day if you’re a non-pregnant woman or two drinks if you’re a man.
Choose healthy foods with stronger flavors, such as broiled fish and citrus fruits. Also, spices add flavor to food and serve as a good substitute for salt.
Choose colorful, visually appealing foods, such as salmon, carrots and dark green vegetables.
Cut foods into small pieces to make them easier to chew.
Pick softer, easier-to-chew foods, such as yogurt, bananas, whole-grain hot cereals and low sodium soups.
Limit the sodium that you get from food and drink.
Do not salt food at the table. Use very little salt, if any, when you cook.
Choose carefully when you eat away from home. Restaurant foods can be very high in sodium. Let the person taking your order know that you want low-salt or no-salt choices. Many restaurants have special menus or will prepare food with less salt.
Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables that are high in potassium.
Have fat-free and low-fat dairy products. These will help you get the calcium and potassium that your body needs.
If you drink alcohol, limit the amount. Women should drink no more than one drink per day. Men should not drink more than two drinks per day. One drink is 12 ounces (oz) of beer, 5 oz of wine, or 1½ oz of liquor.
Eat very little saturated fat and trans fat. These types of fat can raise the low-density lipoprotein, or LDL (“bad”), cholesterol in your blood.
Saturated fat is found in foods from animals, such as fatty meats, whole milk, butter, cream, and other dairy foods made with whole milk. It is also in tropical oils (palm, palm kernel, and coconut). Reduce such foods in your diet.
Trans fat is found in all foods made with hydrogenated oils. It may be in fried foods, crackers, chips, and foods made with shortening or stick margarine. Reduce such foods in your diet.
Choose unsaturated fats (heart-healthy fats), such as soybean, canola, olive, or sunflower oil. Liquid or soft tub margarines are also fine.
Keep total amount of fat that you eat to less than 25% to 35% of the calories that you get from food and drink.
Limit the cholesterol that you get from food to 200 mg of cholesterol per day. Foods high in cholesterol include egg yolks, fatty meats, shrimp, and dairy foods.
Get 20 grams (g) to 30 g of fiber per day.
Eat cold-water, fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, mackerel, and sardines) twice a week. These fish provide omega-3 fats, which are heart-healthy. Be aware, however, that canned fish can be high in sodium. Choose fresh or frozen fish, or buy low-sodium canned types.
Add ground flaxseed or flaxseed oil to food, or eat walnuts. These plant foods are also high in omega-3 fats.
Consume a diet consisting of whole, natural and preferably organic foods. These include fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, legumes, beans, nuts, seeds and fish. Such a diet would be rich in protective antioxidants, essential fatty acids and fiber.
Lose weight. People who are overweight have extra tissue in the back of their throat, which can fall down over the airway and block the flow of air into the lungs while they sleep. Even a small amount of weight loss can open up your throat and improve sleep apnea symptoms.
Avoid caffeine and heavy meals within two hours of going to bed.
Maintain regular sleep hours. Sticking to a steady sleep schedule will help you relax and sleep better. Sleep apnea episodes decrease when you get plenty of sleep.
Sleep on your side. Avoid sleeping on your back which makes it more likely for your tongue and soft tissues to obstruct your airway. Some people only experience sleep apnea when sleeping on their back.
Prop your head up. Elevate the head of your bed by four to six inches, or elevate your body from the waist up by using a foam wedge or special cervical pillow.
Open your nasal passages at night by using a nasal dilator, saline spray, breathing strips, or a neti pot.
Tighten the muscles that keep the mouth closed. Try chewing gum or holding a pen between your teeth for about 10 minutes before bedtime, or until your jaw starts to ache.
Lose excess weight. Even a slight loss in excess weight may help relieve constriction of your throat. Sleep apnea may go into complete remission in some cases if you return to a healthy weight. But sleep apnea will likely come back if you regain the weight.
Sleep on your side or abdomen rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway. To prevent sleeping on your back, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top.
Keep your nasal passages open at night. Use a saline nasal spray to help keep your nasal passages open. Talk to your doctor about using any nasal decongestants or antihistamines because these medications are generally recommended only for short-term use.
Stop smoking, if you're a smoker. Smoking worsens obstructive sleep apnea.
Don't eat a lot before bedtime. Try to focus on eating more calories and food earlier on and throughout the day, rather than in the evening.
Consume 3 small meals and two or three snaks per day, rather than eating 2 large meals. This will help you keep your blood sugar under control. It will also prevent you from overeating on every meal.
Walk 30 minutes each day.
Eat Vegetables such as greens (spinach, collard greens, kale), broccoli, cabbage, and carrots
Eat Fruits such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, grapes, and prunes.
Eat Whole grains such as plain oatmeal, brown rice, and whole-grain bread or tortillas.
Eat Fat-free or low-fat dairy foods such as milk, cheese, or yogurt.
Eat Protein-rich foods, such as, Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and trout, about 8 ounces a week, Lean meats such as 95 percent lean ground beef or pork tenderloin, Poultry such as skinless chicken or turkey, Eggs.
Eat Nuts, seeds, and soy products.
Eat Legumes such as kidney beans, lentils, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans.
Eat Oils and foods containing high levels of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats that can help lower blood cholesterol levels and the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some sources of these oils are: Canola, corn, olive, safflower, sesame, sunflower, and soybean oils, Nuts such as walnuts, almonds, and pine nuts, Nut and seed butters, Salmon and trout.
Eat Seeds such as sesame, sunflower, pumpkin, or flax, Avocados, Tofu.
Read food labels and choose products that have less sodium for the same serving size.
Choose low-sodium, reduced sodium, or no-salt added products.
Choose fresh, frozen, or no-salt-added foods instead of pre-seasoned, sauce-marinated, brined, or processed meats, poultry, and vegetables.
Eat at home more often so you can cook food from scratch, which will allow you to control the amount of sodium in your meals.
Eat less than 10 percent of your daily calories from saturated fats found naturally in foods that come from animals and some plants.
Limit intake of trans fats to as low as possible by limiting foods that contain high amounts of trans fats.
Choose unsweetened or whole fruits for snacks or dessert.
Choose drinks without added sugar such as water, low-fat or fat-free milk, or 100 percent fruit or vegetable juice.
Limit intake of sweetened drinks, snacks and desserts by eating them less often and in smaller amounts.
Participate in aerobic exercise for at least 10 minutes at a time spread throughout the week.
When doing aerobic activity, do it for at least 10 minutes at a time. Spread the activity throughout the week. Muscle-strengthening activities that are moderate or vigorous intensity should be included 2 or more days a week. These activities should work all of the major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, chest, abdomen, shoulders, and arms). Examples include lifting weights, working with resistance bands, and doing situps and pushups, yoga, and heavy gardening.
Older adults should follow the guidelines for adults, if possible. Do a variety of activities, including walking. Walking has been shown to provide health benefits and a low risk of injury.
If you can't do 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of activity each week, be as physically active as your abilities and condition allow.
If you have a chronic (ongoing) condition—such as heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes—ask your doctor what types and amounts of activity are safe for you.
Rest after meals. Wait at least 1 hour after you eat to walk or do any strenuous activities.
If you become short of breath, dizzy, develop pain or chest tightness – stop and rest. If symptoms persist - Call 911.
Limit high-cholesterol foods such as egg yolks, whole milk, cheese, organ & fatty meats, and processed foods.
Avoid butter, coconut, palm, and partially hydrogenated oils, and fatty meats which are high in saturated fats. Choose canola, olive, safflower, sunflower or peanut oils in small amounts.
Minimize intake of trans fats. Trans fats are found in processed foods with hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated oil (boxed crackers, cookies, & cakes).
Eat more fiber and carbohydrates. Eat at least 5 serving per day of a variety of vegetables & fruits. Other good food choices include: pasta (plain), grains, dried beans, potatoes, and brown rice.
Add folic acid & B vitamins to your diet. Adequate folic acid intake in your diet may reduce the amount of homocysteine in your blood. Homocysteine is an amino acid that builds and maintains tissues. Too much homocysteine may promote atherosclerosis. Folic acid can be found in green, leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, legumes, peanuts and cereal grains.
Consume alcohol in moderation:
Consult your doctor to evaluate the benefits and risks of alcohol consumption for you.
Rethink “workaholic” habits and reduce stress in your daily activities.
Use your spiritual beliefs to help you relax.
Discuss any concerns or fears that you may have with someone you trust. Seek professional support and counseling if needed.
DO NOT STOP TAKING ASPIRIN OR ANTIPLATELET DRUGS WITHOUT FIRST CHECKING WITH YOUR HEART DOCTOR.
Eat lots of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains and a limited amount of red meat. Get at least five servings of fruits and vegetables every day. Tips for achieving this goal include:
Make fruits and vegetables part of every meal. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables. Frozen or canned can be used when fresh isn't convenient.
Eat vegetables as snacks.
Have a bowl of fruit out all the time for kids to take snacks from.
Put fruit on your cereal.
Consume at least half of all grains as whole grains (like 100 percent whole wheat bread, brown rice, whole grain cereal), replacing refined grains (like white bread, white rice, refined or sweetened cereals).
Choose smaller portions and eat more slowly.
Cut down on unhealthy fats (trans fats and saturated fats) and consume more healthy fats (polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat). Tips for achieving this goal include:
Choose chicken, fish, and beans instead of red meat and cheese.
Cook with oils that contain polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats, like corn, olive, and peanut oil.
Choose margarines that do not have partially hydrogenated oils. Soft margarines (especially squeeze margarines) have less trans fatty acids than stick margarines.
Eat fewer baked goods that are store-made and contain partially hydrogenated fats (like many types of crackers, cookies, and cupcakes).
Avoid sugary drinks and excessive alcohol intake. Tips for achieving this goal include:
Choose non-sweetened and non-alcoholic beverages, like water, at meals and parties.
Avoid occasions centered around alcohol.
Avoid making sugary drinks and alcohol an essential part of family gatherings.
Look for products labeled "100 percent whole grain" or "100 percent whole wheat."
Grains are naturally low in fat. Keep them this way by avoiding butter, cream and cheese sauces.
Don't think of vegetables only as side dishes — a hearty blend of vegetables served over brown rice or whole-wheat noodles can serve as the main dish for a meal.
Have a piece of fruit with meals and one as a snack, then round out your day with a dessert of fresh fruits topped with a dollop of low-fat yogurt.
Leave on edible peels whenever possible. The peels of apples, pears and most fruits with pits add interesting texture to recipes and contain healthy nutrients and fiber.
Remember that citrus fruits and juices, such as grapefruit, can interact with certain medications, so check with your doctor or pharmacist to see if they're OK for you.
If you choose canned fruit or juice, make sure no sugar is added.
Low-fat or fat-free frozen yogurt can help you boost the amount of dairy products you eat while offering a sweet treat. Add fruit for a healthy twist.
If you have trouble digesting dairy products, choose lactose-free products or consider taking an over-the-counter product that contains the enzyme lactase, which can reduce or prevent the symptoms of lactose intolerance.
Go easy on regular and even fat-free cheeses because they are typically high in sodium.
Meat can be a rich source of protein, B vitamins, iron and zinc. Choose lean varieties and aim for no more than 6 ounces a day.
Trim away skin and fat from poultry and meat and then bake, broil, grill or roast instead of frying in fat.
Eat heart-healthy fish, such as salmon, herring and tuna. These types of fish are high in omega-3 fatty acids, which can help lower your total cholesterol.
Nuts sometimes get a bad rap because of their fat content, but they contain healthy types of fat — monounsaturated fat and omega-3 fatty acids. They're high in calories, however, so eat them in moderation. Try adding them to stir-fries, salads or cereals.
Avoid trans fat, commonly found in such processed foods as crackers, baked goods and fried items.
Read food labels on margarine and salad dressing so that you can choose those that are lowest in saturated fat and free of trans fat.
Cut back on added sugar, which has no nutritional value but can pack on calories.
Reduce sodium further by Using sodium-free spices or flavorings with your food instead of salt
Reduce sodium further by Not adding salt when cooking rice, pasta or hot cereal
Reduce sodium further by Rinsing canned foods to remove some of the sodium
Reduce sodium further byBuying foods labeled "no salt added," "sodium-free," "low sodium" or "very low sodium"
If you can't set aside that much time at once, remember that shorter bursts of activity count, too. You can break up your workout into three 10-minute sessions of aerobic exercise and get the same benefit as one 30-minute session.
If you sit for several hours a day, try to reduce the amount of time you spend sitting. Too much sedentary time can contribute to many health conditions.
Aim for five to 10 minutes of low-intensity physical activity — such as getting up to get a drink of water or going on a short walk — each hour. Consider setting a reminder in your email calendar or on your smartphone.
Stop your activity right away if you become severely out of breath or dizzy, or if you experience chest pain or pressure.
If you take any medication regularly, ask your doctor if exercising will make it work differently or change its side effects — or if your medication will affect the way your body reacts to exercise.
Add a serving of vegetables at lunch and at dinner.
Add a serving of fruit to your meals or as a snack. Canned and dried fruits are easy to use, but check that they don't have added sugar.
Drink low-fat or skim dairy products any time you would normally use full-fat or cream.
Limit meat to 6 ounces a day. Make some meals vegetarian.
Add more vegetables and dry beans to your diet.
Read food labels to choose products that are lower in sodium.
Increase your fibre intake gradually, though, as a sudden increase can cause cramp and constipation. And make sure to drink plenty of water - aim for 1.2 litres a day - to avoid cramp and constipation.
Add pulses – beans, lentils and peas – into your meals. They’re a cheap, low-fat source of fibre, protein, vitamins and minerals. Add pulses to soups, casseroles, rice and pasta, or serve baked beans (choose reduced-salt and sugar varieties) on wholemeal toast.
Don’t forget to eat the skin on fruits such as apples and pears.
Air-popped, plain popcorn. Homemade is best, to avoid the high fat, sugar or salt content in some commercial brands. Don’t add any sugar or butter.
Protein can also help you feel fuller for longer. Choose low-fat protein sources, such as: beans, peas and lentils, fish, lean cuts of meat, skinless white-meat poultry, lower-fat dairy products (milk, cheese, yoghurt), eggs, tofu.
Choose a starter instead of a main course.
Stop eating before you feel full.
Get active – try to get 150 minutes of physical activity every week from now on. If you’ve not done much for a while, aim to increase your activity levels gradually over the next few weeks
Walk more. Walking is one of the easiest and most effective ways of increasing your activity. Find a walking pal or join a walking group.
Take the stairs. Walk up and down stairs and escalators instead of taking the lift, or get off the lift a few floors early and use the stairs.
Take up running. Our popular Couch to 5K running plan is designed to get just about anyone running 5km in nine weeks.
Download our Strength and Flex podcast series and get fit in five weeks.
Get off public  transport a stop before your destination and walk the rest of the way.
If you need to drive to work, try to park further away from your destination and walk the rest of the way.
Be active with the family. Take your children to the swimming pool or play in the garden or park.
Frying adds fat to your meals. Try these healthier alternatives: grilling, poaching, steaming, boiling.
Don’t go hungry Hunger can make cravings worse. Keep your energy levels topped up with some healthier high-fibre snacks.
Drink water. Some people find water helps to calm cravings. Because water is filling, it can trick your body into thinking it’s satisfied. Hot drinks can work too.
Find an activity to take your mind off your craving. Go for a walk, have a bath, call a friend, listen to music.
Chew some gum. Some people find chewing sugar-free gum curbs their appetite. But don’t overdo it as chewing more than 20  sticks of gum over a day can make you ill.
Cravings are fleeting. Try holding off for 30 minutes and find something to distract you in the meantime. Chances are, your urge will pass once the time’s up.
Have a small portion. If the desire just won’t go away, give in, but do it the smart way: have a small portion and reduce your calorie intake later to stay on track
Turn your daily routine into an opportunity to get active, feel healthier and burn off some extra calories.
Get off the bus a stop early.
Go for a brisk walk at lunchtime.
Forget the lift, take the stairs.
Leave the car, walk instead.
Do a daily grocery shop on foot.
Eat breakfast. This should be your mantra. A healthier breakfast will set you up for the day and stop you becoming hungry before lunch. If you’re not hungry before leaving home, have breakfast at work. Bring your own Home-cooked food is often lower in calories and fat and cheaper than food bought on the high street. If sandwiches aren’t your thing, you could cook extra in the evenings and take the leftovers to work, saving you money.
Drink water. Drinking water regularly may help keep hunger pangs in check. You should aim to drink about six to eight glasses (1.2 litres) of fluid every day.
Plan your snacks. Keep a healthier snack within reach, such as fruit, veg (e.g. carrot sticks and reduced-fat hummus dip) or homemade popcorn (without fat, sugar or salt).
Go for wholegrain. When making sandwiches, go for wholegrain bread, which is more filling than white bread, and will keep you feeling fuller for longer. Wholemeal pitta bread and bagels are alternatives to brown loaf bread.
Mayonnaise is about 80% fat, and a just few dollops will turn a healthier meal into an unhealthy one. Try lower fat mayo, reduced-fat hummus, tzatziki or tomato salsa.
If you have a bag of crisps at lunch, go for oven-baked crisps, which can contain up to 70% less fat than regular crisps, or a plain rice cake.
Instead of fatty fillings such as sausages or bacon, go for lean meats, such as turkey or chicken, tuna and salmon or a hard-boiled egg. Remember to go easy on the mayo.
Choose drinks with a lower ABV (alcohol by volume) instead of your usual tipple. There’s an increasing range of lower alcohol choices available and most also have fewer calories.
Don’t drink on an empty stomach, as this can lead to snacking. If you do snack while drinking, avoid high-calorie snacks such as crisps, pork scratchings chips. Try lighter options such as pretzels, plain popcorn or oven-baked crisps.
Opt out and drink at your own pace.
Try cutting down with a friend, as you’ll be more likely to stick to it with moral support.
Eat a healthier dinner before you start drinking. Order or cook before you start drinking so you’re not tempted to go for the less healthy options.
Avoid ‘binge drinking’. Drinking a large amount of alcohol over a short period of time may be significantly worse for your health than frequently drinking small quantities.
Limit Coffee. Getting a caffeine fix could give you 193kcal or more in one hit if you opt for cappuccino or mocha. Switch to black or white coffee instead.
Limit Fruit juice and smoothies. A small glass of cranberry or apple juice racks up nearly 100kcal and a small 250ml yoghurt based smoothie can be about 136kcal. Go for fruit-only smoothies instead.
Limit Fizzy drinks, like Lemonade or cola. They are not only bad for our teeth but also can provide 140kcal in just one can. Switch to diet versions and think of it as a one-off treat.
Skipping breakfast can lead to unplanned and unhealthy mid-morning snacking or bingeing at lunchtime. Go for breakfasts containing fibre, such as wholegrain bread or porridge.
Skipping any meal is a bad idea. It may reduce your calorie intake for a brief period, but you’ll be much hungrier later on and more likely to overeat. Eat regularly and don’t starve from one meal to the next. Have some healthier snacks handy just in case.
Losing track of your calories or mindless munching can easily sabotage an otherwise well-planned diet. Make a note of every bite to stay within your calorie allowance. Unhealthy snacking
High-calorie snacks will do your waistline no favors, but healthier snacks can help you control hunger and keep your energy levels up. Choose snacks with fibre such as fruit, veg and wholegrain food.
Drinking too many calories can hamper weight loss.  Some fancy coffees, sweet fizzy drinks, smoothies and alcoholic drinks can pack a calorie punch. Go for water (still or sparkling) with a slice of lemon, tea or coffee with reduced-fat milk, or herbal tea.
Your weight can fluctuate from day to day, so weighing yourself daily may not give a true picture of your weight loss. Weigh yourself once a week and use other goals to measure progress.
Take care not to cancel out the calories you’ve burned during exercise by eating more afterwards or you might end up putting on weight. For a low calorie post-workout snack, read 10 surprising 100 calorie snacks at nhs.uk/100-calorie-snacks.
Don’t skip a meal. Don’t skip breakfast or lunch to build  calorie credits for your evening out.
If you go over your calorie allowance, don’t worry: simply reduce your calorie intake the following days.
Try to stop eating before you feel overly full.
If you can’t resist having a starter or a dessert, find someone to share it with.
Downsize your portions. To avoid eating too much, order a starter and a side dish as your main course instead of one of the larger mains on the menu.
Avoid deep-fried foods. Avoid food that is deep or shallow fried, battered, pan-fried, marked as ‘crispy’ or with pastry. These are high in fat. Instead, look out for grilled, roasted, poached, steamed or baked dishes.
Avoid cheese, cream or butter-based sauces, which are high in fat and pack a calorie punch. Instead, go for tomato or other vegetable-based sauces.
Beware of high-calorie salads. Watch out for high-calorie toppings such as croutons, cheese, bacon and nuts. Ask for salad dressing on the side and add only as much as you need.
Eat slowly, enjoy every mouthful. You’ll feel satisfied before you feel full and have more chance to take part in the conversation and enjoy the atmosphere.
Go for healthier options such as fruit based desserts, including crumble. If you can’t resist a decadent dessert, share it with a friend.
Don’t drink your calories. Alcohol and sugary soft drinks can be high in calories. Go for water or sugar-free drinks.
Choose sauce-free dishes, such as grilled meat, baked fish or tandoori dishes. Some sauces and dressings can push up a dish’s calorie content.
Avoid cheese and cream-based pasta sauces, such as alfredo or carbonara.
Have thin pizzas with veg toppings, tomato-based sauces, vegetable-based soups, grilled dishes.
Avoid cheesy and meaty pizzas, salami, creamy sauces, garlic bread, lasagne.
Have stir-fries, steamed dumplings, steamed veg, plain boiled rice, steamed fish or chicken.
Avoid anything deep-fried or sweet and sour, prawn toast, spring rolls, egg fried rice.
Thai food is great as it tends to feature lots of steamed or stir-fried vegetables. Have salads, stir-fries, steamed rice, broth soups.
Avoid coconut milk dishes, fried rice, peanut sauce, crispy noodles.
Have tomato-based sauces, tandoori dishes, plain or basmati rice.
Avoid bhajis, poppadoms, creamy curries, pilau rice, naan bread.
Try lean meat, grilled salmon or white fish. And for side dishes, stick to jacket potatoes, steamed vegetables and salad.
A portion of fruit or veg is 80g. Fresh, frozen, tinned and juiced fruit and veg all count towards your 5 A DAY. Use the rough guide below to work out whether you’re eating your 5 A DAY.
Add beans, lentils and pulses to stews, bakes and salads.
Add carrots and broccoli to a roast dinner.
Eat more salad or vegetable-based dishes.
Have vegetables as snacks. Baby carrots, radishes, and sugar snap peas all make ideal snack food. They’re convenient, easy to pack in handy portions and they require very little preparation.
Swap sauces based on cheese or cream – on pasta, rice or a baked potato – for tomato or vegetable-based sauces. Throw in some kidney beans or chickpeas to make the sauce extra filling. These same ingredients can make a filling vegetable or bean-based soups as well.
Add some crunch to your lunchtime sandwiches with lettuce, tomatoes, cucumber or grated carrot. This will help fill you up.
Add green, leafy veg to soups or stews. Veg such as kale or swiss chard are loaded with calcium and iron. This is a really easy way to incorporate them into your meals.
Avoid Cereal bar as most cereal bars are high in sugar and fat. Look out for bars that are low in sugar, fat and salt.
Swap Cake for a plain currant bun, fruit scone or malt loaf. Avoid toppings like butter, icing, jam or cream.
Take your mind off food with some reading.
Listen to a favorite song.
Write down a fun thing you’re going to do today, or this week.
Watch a movie.
Go for a walk.
Have a bath.
Surf the web.
Do some breathing exercises.
Do some exercise.
Trim trails are made up of simple pieces of exercise equipment dotted around parks and recreation areas.
Turn to Turmeric. Add turmeric to meals, or sprinkle it in your tea.
Whether in front of the TV or using your computer at work, maintaining correct posture is essential in fighting pain. Keep your head directly above a tall, straight spine to prevent strain on your back and neck muscles.
Learn deep breathing or meditation to help you relax.
Reduce stress in your life. Stress intensifies chronic pain.
Cut back on alcohol, which can worsen sleep problems.
Join a support group. Meet others living with chronic pain.
Don't smoke. It can worsen chronic pain.
Learn biofeedback to decrease migraine and tension headache pain.
Eat a healthy diet if you're living with chronic pain.
Find ways to distract yourself from pain so you enjoy life more.
Get enough sleep
Get some gentle exercise
Breathe right to ease pain
Distract yourself
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve), might relieve acute back pain. Take these medications as directed by your doctor, because overuse can cause serious side effects.
Refined wheat products, like white bread, stimulate your body’s inflammatory response. That’s why eating a lot of refined pastas, cereals, and grain products might make your arthritis pain flare up. To avoid this, try to choose whole grains whenever possible. Avoid bread products that have been heavily processed. Gluten-containing whole grains and yeast additives may also impact arthritis pain.
Substitute dairy with a healthy source of fats, like almond milk, or an anti-inflammatory, like flax milk. Make sure to avoid carrageenan in these milks, which is an additive derived from seaweed that can cause gastrointestinal symptoms and weaken intestinal permeability.
Stretching on a regular basis can help relieve stiff, achy, or painful joints. All stretches should be done gently. Be sure to stop if you feel pain. Use caution when exercising. If you don’t feel pain after the first few days of exercise, gradually increase the time you spend on this activity.
Get more rest: Eliminate or reduce activities that make your symptoms worse, especially during a flare-up.
Lose weight: Excess weight puts more pressure on your hips and knees.
Cut Extra Calories. Your knees will feel better if you keep your waistline trim. When you drop those extra pounds, you'll put less stress on your joints. A good way to lower your calorie count: Take smaller portions, avoid sugary foods and drinks, and eat mostly plant-based foods.
Eat More Fruits and Veggies. Feel free to eat plenty of these. Many are loaded with antioxidants -- substances that can help protect your cells from damage. Some antioxidants, found in fruits and veggies like apples, onions, shallots, and strawberries, may also help reduce joint inflammation and pain
Add Omega-3 Fatty Acids. Omega-3s may help relieve your joint pain and decrease morning stiffness. They work by reducing inflammation in your body.
Get Enough Vitamin C. A key element for joint health, vitamin C helps build collagen and connective tissue. A lot of tasty foods can give you this nutrient. Try citrus fruits, red peppers, strawberries, broccoli, cabbage, and kale. Aim for the recommended amount of 75 milligrams a day for women or 90 milligrams a day for men.
Watch High Cooking Temperatures. Meat cooked at high temperatures makes compounds that can cause inflammation in your body. They're called advanced glycation end products (AGEs), and they're linked to diseases such as arthritis, heart disease, and diabetes. You can reduce your levels of AGEs if you cut back on grilled, fried, broiled, and microwaved meats. It’s also helpful to limit processed foods, as they are often cooked at high temperatures.
Exercise. Exercise can increase your endurance and strengthen the muscles around your joint, making your joint more stable. Try walking, biking or swimming. If you feel new joint pain, stop.
Lose weight. Obesity or even being somewhat overweight increases the stress on your weight-bearing joints, such as your knees and your hips. Even a small amount of weight loss can relieve some pressure and reduce your pain.
Capsaicin. Topical capsaicin — an active component in hot chili peppers — applied over an arthrititic joint may be an alternative for people who can't take NSAIDs. It may not be noticeably helpful unless consistently applied three to four times a day for several weeks. Be sure to wash your hands well after applying capsaicin cream.
Knee taping. Strapping tape may help ease the pain of knee osteoarthritis. Ask a doctor or physical therapist to demonstrate how best to place the tape.
Use assistive devices. Assistive devices can make it easier to go about your day without stressing your painful joint. A cane may take weight off your knee or hip as you walk. Carry the cane in the hand opposite the leg that hurts.
Aim for 2 cups of fruit, 3 cups of vegetables, and 3 oz of whole grains per day.
Quit smoking. Smoking contributes to sleep apnea by increasing inflammation and fluid retention in your throat and upper airway.
Avoid alcohol, sleeping pills, and sedatives, especially before bedtime, because they relax the muscles in the throat and interfere with breathing.
Exercise regularly. As well as helping you lose weight, regular exercise can have a major effect on the duration and quality of sleep. Aerobic and resistance training can help reduce sleep apnea symptoms, while yoga is also good for strengthening the muscles in your airways and improving breathing.
The tennis ball trick. To keep yourself from rolling onto your back while you sleep, sew a tennis ball into a pocket on the back of your pajama top. Or wedge a pillow stuffed with tennis balls behind your back.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help ease the symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea even without weight loss. A good goal is to try to get 30 minutes of moderate activity, such as a brisk walk, most days of the week.
Avoid alcohol and certain medications such as tranquilizers and sleeping pills. These relax the muscles in the back of your throat, interfering with breathing.
When cooking, limit your use of premade sauces, mixes, and “instant” products such as rice, noodles, and ready-made pasta.
Flavor foods with herbs and spices instead of salt.
For major health benefits, do at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes (1 hour and 15 minutes) of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity each week. Another option is to do a combination of both. A general rule is that 2 minutes of moderate-intensity activity counts the same as 1 minute of vigorous-intensity activity.
For even more health benefits, do 300 minutes (5 hours) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of vigorous-intensity activity each week (or a combination of both). The more active you are, the more you will benefit.
If you're healthy but not already active, do at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each week. If possible, spread this activity across the week.
Space your activities to avoid getting too tired.
Exercise (walk or cycle) at a calm, easy pace.
Pace yourself so you can easily hold a conversation while you exercise.
Exercise when you are rested.
Practice relaxing by resting, meditating, or taking slow deep breaths.
Focus on whole grains because they have more fiber and nutrients than do refined grains.
For instance, use brown rice instead of white rice, whole-wheat pasta instead of regular pasta and whole-grain bread instead of white bread.
Fresh and frozen vegetables are both good choices. When buying frozen and canned vegetables, choose those labeled as low sodium or without added salt.
To increase the number of servings you fit in daily, be creative. In a stir-fry, for instance, cut the amount of meat in half and double up on the vegetables.
When you eat sweets, choose those that are fat-free or low-fat, such as sorbets, fruit ices, jelly beans, hard candy, graham crackers or low-fat cookies.
Use only half your typical serving of butter, margarine, or salad dressing, and use low-fat or fat-free condiments.
Instead of snacking on chips or sweets, eat unsalted pretzels or nuts, raisins, low-fat and fat-free yogurt, frozen yogurt, unsalted plain popcorn with no butter, and raw vegetables.
Swap white bread for wholemeal or wholegrain varieties.
Swap sugary cereals for high-fibre cereals such as wholegrain wheat cereals, unsweetened muesli, or porridge oats, and don’t forget to check the salt content.
Vegetables are a good source of fibre, so try swapping some of the things on your plate for more veg. Aim for two portions of veg on your plate at dinner.
Swap white rice and pasta for  wholemeal versions – simply doing this can double the amount of fibre you’ve eaten.
Stock up on healthier snacks containing fibre such as: Fruit – fresh, canned or frozen.
While eating out, avoid appetizers including bread, nuts or olives.
Stay clear of ‘supersize’ or ‘go large’ options.
If you’re having dessert, share it and go for fruit-based options.
Exercise in your local park.
Cycle or walk part, if not all, of your journey to work.
Exercise before or after work or during your lunch break. Your workplace may have a gym or you may have access to a swimming pool or squash courts.
Brush your teeth with toothpaste. Once your mouth is minty clean and fresh, some people find it helps to get rid of a craving.
SWAP crisps FOR pretzels
SWAP chocolate FOR dates
SWAP fried chips FOR oven chips
SWAP fizzy drinks FOR diet versions
SWAP deep pan pizza FOR thin crust
SWAP sweet and sour FOR stir-fry
SWAP sweets FOR raisins
Stick to your daily recommended units. Men shouldn’t regularly drink more than 3-4 units of alcohol a day.
Alternate an alcoholic drink with a diet soft drink or water – this will help  to prevent you becoming dehydrated.
Stick to your daily meal routine to keep  your appetite under control throughout  the day.
Stick to one course in restaurants.  It’s perfectly acceptable to have just a  main course. And don’t feel the need  to finish your plate
Ask what’s in a dish or how it’s been cooked – the restaurant should be happy to tell you. If you aren’t sure, ask for a dish to come without a ‘suspect’ item Try to keep track of exactly what you eat and the amount so you can sum up the calories accurately.
Eat Half a grapefruit, An apple, 2 plums or satsumas, 3 heaped tablespoons of peas,sweetcorn, beans or pulses, 2 broccoli spears, A dessert bowl of salad leaves.
Aim to make your meal more filling by adding vegetables, and then cut back on another, high-calorie ingredient or food, or simply eat less. This way, you can feel full while eating fewer calories.
Aim for two portions of veg on your plate.
If you’re having shepherd’s pie, have some peas with it too.
Stock up on frozen vegetables. They’re quick and easy to prepare in the microwave or on the hob. You can choose single vegetables – such as peas, carrots, green beans or cauliflower – or mixed veg.
Cooked breakfast. Swap a fried tomato or mushroom for a grilled tomato or mushroom. Or, try an omelette stuffed with onion and peppers.
Instead of Crisps, choose lower-fat, lower-salt oven-baked crisps, which contain up to 70% less fat than standard varieties.
Instead of Pork scratchings, choose  homemade air-popped, plain popcorn.
Instead of Ice-cream, opt for lower-fat frozen yoghurt, or try sorbet made from sweetened water flavoured with fruit.
Instead of  Chocolate have a lower-calorie hot instant chocolate drink. You can also get chocolate with coffee and chocolate with malt varieties.
Swap Biscuits for oat cakes, oat biscuits or unsalted rice cakes, which contain fibre.
Instead of Sweets, try dried fruit such as raisins, sultanas, dates, apricots or figs, which all count towards your 5 A DAY.
Instead of Sugary fizzy drinks, try mixing sparkling water with unsweetened fruit juice, which counts towards your 5 A DAY, or choose a lower-calorie diet variety.
Phone a friend.
Clean the car.
Work up a sweat digging, planting and path-clearing at one of 95 free Green Gyms around the country run by The Conservation Volunteers.
Stay Hydrated.  According to the Mayo Clinic, dehydration may aggravate the symptoms of some chronic conditions, like headaches and back pain.
Boost chronic pain relief with the natural endorphins from exercise.
Track your pain level and activities every day. To effectively treat your pain, your doctor needs to know how you've been feeling between visits.
Complementary therapies may help you feel better by reducing your pain or stress. These therapies include: Acupuncture, Biofeedback, Guided imagery, Healing touch, Massage, Meditation, Yoga.
Stay physically active
Share your story about pain
Never use an over-the-counter NSAID for more than 10 days without checking with your doctor. Over-the-counter NSAIDs are effective pain relievers, but they are intended for short-term use. When taking NSAIDs for long periods of time, your doctor should closely follow how you’re doing so she can watch for side effects and change your treatment if needed
Stick with foods that are baked without any oil additives. When you need to use oil to cook with, opt for a small amount of olive or avocado oil, instead.
Change your diet: Research shows that a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids can reduce the signs of arthritis in cartilage.
Use compresses: Apply heat to a stiff hip joint or cold to swollen areas.
Use Olive Oil in Place of Other Fats. One study shows that a compound in olive oil, called oleocanthal, helps prevent inflammation. It works in much the same way that NSAIDs do. Olive oils with the strongest flavor have the highest amount. About 3 1/2 tablespoons of olive oil offers the same relief as 200 milligrams of ibuprofen. But that much oil also gives you about 400 calories.
Use heat and cold to manage pain. Both heat and cold can relieve pain in your joint. Heat also relieves stiffness, and cold can relieve muscle spasms and pain.
Apply over-the-counter pain creams. Creams and gels available at drugstores may provide temporary relief from osteoarthritis pain. Some creams numb the pain by creating a hot or cool sensation. Other creams contain medications, such as aspirin-like compounds, that are absorbed into your skin. Pain creams work best on joints that are close to the surface of your skin, such as your knees and fingers.
Take a walk. Exercise that gets your heart pumping is good. Aim for about 30 minutes—at least three times a week—of gentle aerobic exercise like brisk walking, jogging, or swimming.
Go in the water. Aquatic therapy is a low-impact activity that helps ease back pain. The natural resistance from the water promotes muscle strength and reduces pressure on your bones and joints. Even if you’re not swimming, you can walk in waist-high water or perform arm and leg exercises against the resistance of the water.
Stretching serves two main purposes: It loosens up tense muscles and strengthens those that need some help. Depending on the location and cause of your back pain, certain stretches can reduce back pain, while others can cause more pain. Stretching should be gentle, so stop any stretching exercise that causes pain. If you force a stretch, you could do more damage than good. Consult your doctor for help in deciding the best stretches for your back pain. Once you get the hang of it, regular stretching can ease back pain quickly and effectively.
Fix Your Posture, Most of us spend a good amount of time sitting down, whether it’s at work or during the commute to and from work. Sitting down for long periods of time may be more harmful than you realize. But you can minimize the impact by sitting properly. Correct posture in a chair means having all the bones in your spine lined up neatly, like a stack of perfectly aligned blocks. This means keeping your feet flat on the floor and your computer keyboard within easy reach so you’re not leaning forward. This is one part of proper office ergonomics.
Adjust How You Sleep. Sleeping on your back is best. Spending a few nights on the floor with a pillow underneath your feet can really help your back, even if it might be a little trickier to stay sound asleep. If you’re a side sleeper, putting a pillow between your knees can help by allowing your muscles to relax more. Sleeping on your stomach can be bad for your back. If this is the only way you can fall asleep, the Mayo Clinic recommends placing a pillow under your lower abdomen and pelvis to prevent back strain.
Ask for a Massage. Gently massaging a sore or tense muscle is one of the most effective ways to loosen it up and relieve pain. However, not everyone can afford a personal masseuse when back pain kicks in. So, consider asking your partner for a massage! For added benefit, ask your loved one to use some medicated ointment to double your pain relief.
Try Rubs and Ointments. There are plenty of pain rubs and ointments on the shelves. Some standards include Icy Hot or Tiger Balm. The effectiveness of these medications can vary from user to user, so go with what feels best and suits your needs. Some typical turn-offs with these ointments are the smell and difficulty of putting it on your own back. One popular product is Biofreeze, a natural compound with a cooling sensation without the greasy texture. It comes in menthol and unscented varieties as well as a spray form.
Take Over-the-Counter Medicines. here are many over-the-counter medicines for pain, even some targeted for back pain, such as Tylenol or Advil. Sometimes back pain can be so severe that it might require use of painkillers. Be sure to follow the usage guidelines and take only the recommended amount. If you’re taking pain medication regularly for your back pain, you should talk to your doctor, as these medicines may have more unwanted side effects in the long run.
Slow It Down. Too often, the body’s aches and pains aren’t caused by physical injury but because we push ourselves too hard. Make sure you take your time and schedule breaks when doing physical activity if your back hurts. Stress also adds to how your body reacts to pain, so the calmer and more relaxed you are, the more your back will thank you.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve), might relieve acute back pain. Take these medications as directed by your doctor, because overuse can cause serious side effects.
Certain sleeping positions can help ease your back pain, so find one that is most comfortable for you. Try sleeping with a pillow between or underneath your legs for extra support.
Get a good mattress. The type of mattress you need depends on your body type. A soft mattress can be good if your hips are wider than your waist because it will let your spine stay straight while you sleep. If your hips and waist already line up straight, a harder mattress might feel better because it will give you more support.
Get in and out of bed carefully. It may sound obvious, but be extra careful when you get in and out of bed. Bending forward at your waist or making quick and jerking motions can cause you more back pain. Take your time and roll over onto one side and use your arms to push your way up. You can then swing your legs out of bed to stand up slowly. Reverse the movements when it’s time to lie down at night.
Wear Comfortable Shoes. To help keep your back feeling healthy, choose comfortable, well-cushioned shoes. Although low-heeled shoes are best for everyday wear, heels aren’t necessarily a no-no. Choose a pair with a cushioned sole. Cushioned soles reduce the impact when you’re walking on hard surfaces. This helps protect your back, hips, and knees.
Start Exercise Gradually. Exercise is a great way to keep your back healthy. But if you’ve been inactive for a while, start slowly. Begin with a low-impact exercise such as walking, stationary biking, or swimming for about 30 minutes a day. Adding gentle stretching or yoga may also help your muscles. Ask your doctor what types of exercise are best for you.
Take a Break. If you do a lot of sitting or standing during the day, take a break every so often to move around. Just a short walk around the house or office can help relieve tight joints and muscles. You can also try doing some gentle stretches. When a break isn’t possible, make sure to change your position occasionally.
Stand Smart.  Standing for long periods can be stressful on your lower back. If you have to stand for work, try placing one foot on a stool or other low object. Then change feet every so often. This will help take the pressure off your lower back. Wearing cushioned shoes or standing on a thick rubber mat can also help relieve pressure when you have to stand for long hours.
Learn to Lift Properly. Lifting children and other heavy objects is a common source of back pain. Follow these tips to protect your back. Get close to the object you’re lifting. Keep your elbows as close to your trunk as possible, trying not to reach your arms away from your body. Bend your knees and lift with your legs and stomach muscles. Don’t twist as you lift.
Adjust Your Driving Position. Driving long distances can put a strain on your low back. Follow these tips to help keep your back feeling good, even on the longest trips. Move your seat forward so you don’t have to bend to reach the steering wheel. Put a rolled towel, small pillow, or other lumbar support behind your lower back. Take a break every hour on long trips to get out of the car and walk around.
Know What Exercises to Avoid. If you’ve had a back injury or are dealing with certain back conditions, there may be some exercises that you shouldn’t do at all until your doctor gives approval. These may include contact sports, racket sports, golf, weight lifting, dancing, jogging, and sit-ups. Your doctor may also advise against doing leg lifts while lying on your stomach. Ask your doctor about any other specific exercises you should avoid.
Push With Care. Activities that require pushing, such as vacuuming, using a stroller, and mowing the lawn can strain your lower back. Again, keep your elbows as close to your trunk as possible. Don’t push with straight arms. Choosing a lightweight stroller or vacuum can also help. If the activity still feels like too much, try doing a little at a time.
Choose the Best Sleep Position. Sleeping on your side is the most common sleeping position. Placing a small pillow between your knees helps keep the back in a good position. If you must sleep on your back, try using a pillow under your knees. Avoid sleeping on your stomach, as this can make back pain worse.
Keep Your Weight Down. Carrying extra weight on your body means more work for your lower back muscles. This is especially true if the extra pounds are around your waist. The heavier you are, the more impact there is on your back with each step. Losing weight can also help protect the muscles and joints in your knees and hips.
It’s important not to ignore severe symptoms. Seek medical attention immediately if you have a headache that starts suddenly or a headache accompanied by slurred speech, loss of balance, or a high fever. This can indicate a much more serious problem, such as a stroke, tumor, or an aneurysm.
Rest in a Dark, Quiet Room. Stress is one of the main causes of headaches. Relieving tense muscles may help calm tension headaches, the most common type of headache. People who have tension headaches may also feel overly sensitive to either light or sound. Rest or sit in a dimly lit room. Close your eyes and try to relax your back, neck, and shoulders.
Try Caffeine. Caffeine may help relieve headache symptoms by helping pain relief drugs work better and faster. Caffeine added to pain relievers can make them more effective in treating headaches. That’s why caffeine is often an ingredient in medications.
Relax to Ease Pain. Deep breathing exercises and mental imagery may reduce stress and ease headache pain. This quick technique combines both: Take several deep breaths. Exhale slowly, relaxing areas that feel tight and cramped, while picturing a peaceful scene. Drop your chin toward your chest, then gently and slowly rotate your head in a half circle from one side to the other. Take another deep breath and exhale slowly.
Treat Pain With Heat or Cold. Cold and heat may relieve pain and muscle tension that can accompany headaches. A hot shower or moist heat applied to the back of the neck may ease symptoms of infrequent tension headaches. Try a hot water bottle, a warm towel, or a warm compress. If you prefer cold, try wrapping an ice pack in a towel. Then put it where you hurt -- on your forehead, temples, or neck.
Massage Away Tension Headaches. Massage can undo clenched muscles and help you relax, so it can be especially good for stress or tension headaches. Have someone else gently massage your head, neck, and shoulder muscles. Or do it yourself with a targeted mini-massage. Gently rub the painful spot on your head with your fingertips for several seconds. Rest and repeat as needed.
Exercise to Ease Tension. Neck exercises may ease tension headache pain caused by holding your head in one position for too long. Here’s an exercise that may help. Place your palm on your forehead. Using your neck muscles, press forehead lightly forward against palm. Keep your head upright, your hand and arm still for resistance.
Try an Acupressure Technique. Acupressure may help ease headache pain. Place your thumbs near the base of your skull. Find the depressions on both sides of where your head meets your neck. They are just outside of the thick muscle that runs down the middle (about 2 inches from the center). Press in and slightly upward with your thumbs until you feel slight pain. While pressing move your thumbs in small circles for 1-2 minutes.
Over-the-counter drugs acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium can ease headache pain. Drugs that combine acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine may work better for some people than when each is taken alone. But using any headache medicine for more than three days a week may cause medication overuse headaches. See your doctor if you need medication this often.
Include foods rich in fiber and healthy carbohydrates in your diet. Eating fruits, vegetables, and whole grains will help keep your blood glucose levels steady.
Eat at regular intervals
Be careful not to overeat.
Control your weight and keep your heart healthy. That means keeping refined carbohydrates, sweets, and animal fats to a minimum.
Get about half an hour of aerobic activity daily to help keep your heart healthy. Exercise helps to control blood glucose, too.
Use a home monitoring system to test your own blood sugar levels between visits to your doctor. Your doctor will tell you how often you should do that and what your target range should be.
If you occasionally like to have something sweet, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options.
Make sure that most of your carb choices are whole-grain, high-fiber options. For example, if you’d like to have a piece of chocolate cake with frosting, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options such as beans.
Opt for low-fat animal protein sources and healthy fats.
Try replacing the red meat on your plate with omega-3 fatty acid-rich cold-water fish like salmon, mackerel, and herring.
Fruits are often packed with fiber, as well as vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. Be sure to choose whole fruits over juice to get the beneficial fiber. The more skin on the fruit, the more fiber it contains.
Make sure that most of your carb choices are whole-grain, high-fiber options. For example, if you’d like to have a piece of chocolate cake with frosting, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options such as beans.
Vegetables are also a great addition to every meal. They are low in calories and high in water content so they can help you feel full with fewer calories. Go for color and increased variety. Some good options include: broccoli, spinach, peppers, carrots, green beans, tomatoes,  celery, cabbage.
If you have diabetes, you should spread your carbohydrate intake throughout the day to avoid unnecessary spikes in your blood sugar levels. And be sure to choose portions that help you meet or maintain your weight goals.
Physical activity -- from working out to doing chores -- lowers your blood sugar. It helps your cells use insulin. It also helps your muscles use glucose. Make sure you check your blood sugar before and after exercise
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush your teeth at least twice a day, floss your teeth once a day and schedule regular dental exams. Consult your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes, and moisturize with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness and swelling. Consult your doctor if you have a sore or other foot problem that isn't healing.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your doctor to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of various diabetes complications. Talk to your doctor about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol, as well as drink mixers, can cause either high or low blood sugar, depending on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so in moderation and always with a meal.
Eat healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Get physical. Aim for a minimum of 30 minutes of moderate physical activity a day. Take a brisk daily walk. Ride a bike. Swim laps. If you can't fit in a long workout, spread 10-minute or longer sessions throughout the day.
Lose excess pounds. If you're overweight, losing 7 percent of your body weight can reduce the risk of diabetes. To keep your weight in a healthy range, focus on permanent changes to your eating and exercise habits. Motivate yourself by remembering the benefits of losing weight, such as a healthier heart, more energy and improved self-esteem.
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your abdomen, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus. If your weight is healthy, work to maintain it. If you are overweight or obese, work to slowly lose weight — no more than 1 or 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kilogram) a week. Ask your doctor for help in devising a weight-loss strategy that will work for you.
Avoid tight-fitting clothing. Clothes that fit tightly around your waist put pressure on your abdomen and the lower esophageal sphincter.
Avoid foods and drinks that trigger heartburn. Everyone has specific triggers. Common triggers such as fatty or fried foods, tomato sauce, alcohol, chocolate, mint, garlic, onion, and caffeine may make heartburn worse. Avoid foods you know will trigger your heartburn.
Eat smaller meals. Avoid overeating by eating smaller meals.
Don't lie down after a meal. Wait at least three hours after eating before lying down or going to bed.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn at night or while trying to sleep, put gravity to work for you. Place wood or cement blocks under the feet of your bed so that the head end is raised by 6 to 9 inches. If it's not possible to elevate your bed, you can insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Wedges are available at drugstores and medical supply stores. Raising your head with additional pillows is not effective.
Don't smoke. Smoking decreases the lower esophageal sphincter's ability to function properly.
Herbal remedies sometimes used for GERD symptoms include licorice, slippery elm, chamomile, marshmallow and others. Herbal remedies can have serious side effects, and they may interfere with medications. Ask your doctor about a safe dosage before beginning any herbal remedy.
Techniques to calm stress and anxiety may reduce signs and symptoms of GERD. Ask your doctor about relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation or guided imagery.
Acupuncture involves inserting thin needles into specific points on your body. Limited evidence suggests it may help people with heartburn, but major studies have not proved a benefit. Ask your doctor whether acupuncture is safe for you.
Lean meats, such as chicken, turkey, fish, and seafood, are low fat and reduce symptoms of acid reflux. Try them grilled, broiled, baked, and poached.
Sources of healthy fats include avocados, walnuts, flaxseed, olive oil, sesame oil, and sunflower oil. Reduce your intake of saturated fats and trans fats and replace them with these healthier unsaturated fats.
The following foods have a high fat content. Avoid these or eat them sparingly: french fries and onion rings; full-fat dairy products, such as butter, whole milk, regular cheese, and sour cream; fatty or fried cuts of beef, pork, or lamb; bacon fat, ham fat, and lard; desserts or snacks such as ice cream and potato chips; cream sauces, gravies, and creamy salad dressings.
Take antacids and other medications that reduce acid production.
Chew gum that isn’t peppermint or spearmint flavored.
Remain upright for at least two hours after eating.
Don’t eat 3 to 4 hours before bed.
