Eat a diet rich in vegetables and fruits.
Choose whole-grain, high-fiber foods.
Eat fish at least twice a week.
Limit saturated fat and trans fat. Avoiding partially hydrogenated oils will reduce trans fats.
Choose lean meats and poultry, and prepare them without using saturated or trans fats.
Select low-fat dairy products.
Cut back on drinks and foods with added sugars. The AHA recommends that no more than half of your discretionary calories should come from added sugars. For most American women, the discretionary calorie allowance is no more than 100 calories and no more than 150 calories for men.
Choose and prepare foods with little salt (sodium). The AHA recommends consuming less than 1500 mg of sodium a day.
If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Limit yourself to one drink per day if you’re a non-pregnant woman or two drinks if you’re a man.
Choose healthy foods with stronger flavors, such as broiled fish and citrus fruits. Also, spices add flavor to food and serve as a good substitute for salt.
Choose colorful, visually appealing foods, such as salmon, carrots and dark green vegetables.
Cut foods into small pieces to make them easier to chew.
Pick softer, easier-to-chew foods, such as yogurt, bananas, whole-grain hot cereals and low sodium soups.
Limit the sodium that you get from food and drink.
Do not salt food at the table. Use very little salt, if any, when you cook.
Choose carefully when you eat away from home. Restaurant foods can be very high in sodium. Let the person taking your order know that you want low-salt or no-salt choices. Many restaurants have special menus or will prepare food with less salt.
Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables that are high in potassium.
Have fat-free and low-fat dairy products. These will help you get the calcium and potassium that your body needs.
If you drink alcohol, limit the amount. Women should drink no more than one drink per day. Men should not drink more than two drinks per day. One drink is 12 ounces (oz) of beer, 5 oz of wine, or 1½ oz of liquor.
Eat very little saturated fat and trans fat. These types of fat can raise the low-density lipoprotein, or LDL (“bad”), cholesterol in your blood.
Saturated fat is found in foods from animals, such as fatty meats, whole milk, butter, cream, and other dairy foods made with whole milk. It is also in tropical oils (palm, palm kernel, and coconut). Reduce such foods in your diet.
Trans fat is found in all foods made with hydrogenated oils. It may be in fried foods, crackers, chips, and foods made with shortening or stick margarine. Reduce such foods in your diet.
Choose unsaturated fats (heart-healthy fats), such as soybean, canola, olive, or sunflower oil. Liquid or soft tub margarines are also fine.
Keep total amount of fat that you eat to less than 25% to 35% of the calories that you get from food and drink.
Limit the cholesterol that you get from food to 200 mg of cholesterol per day. Foods high in cholesterol include egg yolks, fatty meats, shrimp, and dairy foods.
Get 20 grams (g) to 30 g of fiber per day.
Eat cold-water, fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, mackerel, and sardines) twice a week. These fish provide omega-3 fats, which are heart-healthy. Be aware, however, that canned fish can be high in sodium. Choose fresh or frozen fish, or buy low-sodium canned types.
Add ground flaxseed or flaxseed oil to food, or eat walnuts. These plant foods are also high in omega-3 fats.
Consume a diet consisting of whole, natural and preferably organic foods. These include fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, legumes, beans, nuts, seeds and fish. Such a diet would be rich in protective antioxidants, essential fatty acids and fiber.
Lose weight. People who are overweight have extra tissue in the back of their throat, which can fall down over the airway and block the flow of air into the lungs while they sleep. Even a small amount of weight loss can open up your throat and improve sleep apnea symptoms.
Avoid caffeine and heavy meals within two hours of going to bed.
Maintain regular sleep hours. Sticking to a steady sleep schedule will help you relax and sleep better. Sleep apnea episodes decrease when you get plenty of sleep.
Sleep on your side. Avoid sleeping on your back which makes it more likely for your tongue and soft tissues to obstruct your airway. Some people only experience sleep apnea when sleeping on their back.
Prop your head up. Elevate the head of your bed by four to six inches, or elevate your body from the waist up by using a foam wedge or special cervical pillow.
Open your nasal passages at night by using a nasal dilator, saline spray, breathing strips, or a neti pot.
Tighten the muscles that keep the mouth closed. Try chewing gum or holding a pen between your teeth for about 10 minutes before bedtime, or until your jaw starts to ache.
Lose excess weight. Even a slight loss in excess weight may help relieve constriction of your throat. Sleep apnea may go into complete remission in some cases if you return to a healthy weight. But sleep apnea will likely come back if you regain the weight.
Sleep on your side or abdomen rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway. To prevent sleeping on your back, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top.
Keep your nasal passages open at night. Use a saline nasal spray to help keep your nasal passages open. Talk to your doctor about using any nasal decongestants or antihistamines because these medications are generally recommended only for short-term use.
Stop smoking, if you're a smoker. Smoking worsens obstructive sleep apnea.
Don't eat a lot before bedtime. Try to focus on eating more calories and food earlier on and throughout the day, rather than in the evening.
Consume 3 small meals and two or three snaks per day, rather than eating 2 large meals. This will help you keep your blood sugar under control. It will also prevent you from overeating on every meal.
Walk 30 minutes each day.
Eat Vegetables such as greens (spinach, collard greens, kale), broccoli, cabbage, and carrots
Eat Fruits such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, grapes, and prunes.
Eat Whole grains such as plain oatmeal, brown rice, and whole-grain bread or tortillas.
Eat Fat-free or low-fat dairy foods such as milk, cheese, or yogurt.
Eat Protein-rich foods, such as, Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and trout, about 8 ounces a week, Lean meats such as 95 percent lean ground beef or pork tenderloin, Poultry such as skinless chicken or turkey, Eggs.
Eat Nuts, seeds, and soy products.
Eat Legumes such as kidney beans, lentils, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans.
Eat Oils and foods containing high levels of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats that can help lower blood cholesterol levels and the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some sources of these oils are: Canola, corn, olive, safflower, sesame, sunflower, and soybean oils, Nuts such as walnuts, almonds, and pine nuts, Nut and seed butters, Salmon and trout.
Eat Seeds such as sesame, sunflower, pumpkin, or flax, Avocados, Tofu.
Read food labels and choose products that have less sodium for the same serving size.
Choose low-sodium, reduced sodium, or no-salt added products.
Choose fresh, frozen, or no-salt-added foods instead of pre-seasoned, sauce-marinated, brined, or processed meats, poultry, and vegetables.
Eat at home more often so you can cook food from scratch, which will allow you to control the amount of sodium in your meals.
Eat less than 10 percent of your daily calories from saturated fats found naturally in foods that come from animals and some plants.
Limit intake of trans fats to as low as possible by limiting foods that contain high amounts of trans fats.
Choose unsweetened or whole fruits for snacks or dessert.
Choose drinks without added sugar such as water, low-fat or fat-free milk, or 100 percent fruit or vegetable juice.
Limit intake of sweetened drinks, snacks and desserts by eating them less often and in smaller amounts.
Participate in aerobic exercise for at least 10 minutes at a time spread throughout the week.
When doing aerobic activity, do it for at least 10 minutes at a time. Spread the activity throughout the week. Muscle-strengthening activities that are moderate or vigorous intensity should be included 2 or more days a week. These activities should work all of the major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, chest, abdomen, shoulders, and arms). Examples include lifting weights, working with resistance bands, and doing situps and pushups, yoga, and heavy gardening.
Older adults should follow the guidelines for adults, if possible. Do a variety of activities, including walking. Walking has been shown to provide health benefits and a low risk of injury.
If you can't do 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of activity each week, be as physically active as your abilities and condition allow.
If you have a chronic (ongoing) condition—such as heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes—ask your doctor what types and amounts of activity are safe for you.
Rest after meals. Wait at least 1 hour after you eat to walk or do any strenuous activities.
If you become short of breath, dizzy, develop pain or chest tightness – stop and rest. If symptoms persist - Call 911.
Limit high-cholesterol foods such as egg yolks, whole milk, cheese, organ & fatty meats, and processed foods.
Avoid butter, coconut, palm, and partially hydrogenated oils, and fatty meats which are high in saturated fats. Choose canola, olive, safflower, sunflower or peanut oils in small amounts.
Minimize intake of trans fats. Trans fats are found in processed foods with hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated oil (boxed crackers, cookies, & cakes).
Eat more fiber and carbohydrates. Eat at least 5 serving per day of a variety of vegetables & fruits. Other good food choices include: pasta (plain), grains, dried beans, potatoes, and brown rice.
Add folic acid & B vitamins to your diet. Adequate folic acid intake in your diet may reduce the amount of homocysteine in your blood. Homocysteine is an amino acid that builds and maintains tissues. Too much homocysteine may promote atherosclerosis. Folic acid can be found in green, leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, legumes, peanuts and cereal grains.
Consume alcohol in moderation:
Consult your doctor to evaluate the benefits and risks of alcohol consumption for you.
Rethink “workaholic” habits and reduce stress in your daily activities.
Use your spiritual beliefs to help you relax.
Discuss any concerns or fears that you may have with someone you trust. Seek professional support and counseling if needed.
DO NOT STOP TAKING ASPIRIN OR ANTIPLATELET DRUGS WITHOUT FIRST CHECKING WITH YOUR HEART DOCTOR.
Eat lots of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains and a limited amount of red meat. Get at least five servings of fruits and vegetables every day. Tips for achieving this goal include:
Make fruits and vegetables part of every meal. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables. Frozen or canned can be used when fresh isn't convenient.
Eat vegetables as snacks.
Have a bowl of fruit out all the time for kids to take snacks from.
Put fruit on your cereal.
Consume at least half of all grains as whole grains (like 100 percent whole wheat bread, brown rice, whole grain cereal), replacing refined grains (like white bread, white rice, refined or sweetened cereals).
Choose smaller portions and eat more slowly.
Cut down on unhealthy fats (trans fats and saturated fats) and consume more healthy fats (polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat). Tips for achieving this goal include:
Choose chicken, fish, and beans instead of red meat and cheese.
Cook with oils that contain polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats, like corn, olive, and peanut oil.
Choose margarines that do not have partially hydrogenated oils. Soft margarines (especially squeeze margarines) have less trans fatty acids than stick margarines.
Eat fewer baked goods that are store-made and contain partially hydrogenated fats (like many types of crackers, cookies, and cupcakes).
Avoid sugary drinks and excessive alcohol intake. Tips for achieving this goal include:
Choose non-sweetened and non-alcoholic beverages, like water, at meals and parties.
Avoid occasions centered around alcohol.
Avoid making sugary drinks and alcohol an essential part of family gatherings.
Look for products labeled "100 percent whole grain" or "100 percent whole wheat."
Grains are naturally low in fat. Keep them this way by avoiding butter, cream and cheese sauces.
Don't think of vegetables only as side dishes — a hearty blend of vegetables served over brown rice or whole-wheat noodles can serve as the main dish for a meal.
Have a piece of fruit with meals and one as a snack, then round out your day with a dessert of fresh fruits topped with a dollop of low-fat yogurt.
Leave on edible peels whenever possible. The peels of apples, pears and most fruits with pits add interesting texture to recipes and contain healthy nutrients and fiber.
Remember that citrus fruits and juices, such as grapefruit, can interact with certain medications, so check with your doctor or pharmacist to see if they're OK for you.
If you choose canned fruit or juice, make sure no sugar is added.
Low-fat or fat-free frozen yogurt can help you boost the amount of dairy products you eat while offering a sweet treat. Add fruit for a healthy twist.
If you have trouble digesting dairy products, choose lactose-free products or consider taking an over-the-counter product that contains the enzyme lactase, which can reduce or prevent the symptoms of lactose intolerance.
Go easy on regular and even fat-free cheeses because they are typically high in sodium.
Meat can be a rich source of protein, B vitamins, iron and zinc. Choose lean varieties and aim for no more than 6 ounces a day.
Trim away skin and fat from poultry and meat and then bake, broil, grill or roast instead of frying in fat.
Eat heart-healthy fish, such as salmon, herring and tuna. These types of fish are high in omega-3 fatty acids, which can help lower your total cholesterol.
Nuts sometimes get a bad rap because of their fat content, but they contain healthy types of fat — monounsaturated fat and omega-3 fatty acids. They're high in calories, however, so eat them in moderation. Try adding them to stir-fries, salads or cereals.
Avoid trans fat, commonly found in such processed foods as crackers, baked goods and fried items.
Read food labels on margarine and salad dressing so that you can choose those that are lowest in saturated fat and free of trans fat.
Cut back on added sugar, which has no nutritional value but can pack on calories.
Reduce sodium further by Using sodium-free spices or flavorings with your food instead of salt
Reduce sodium further by Not adding salt when cooking rice, pasta or hot cereal
Reduce sodium further by Rinsing canned foods to remove some of the sodium
Reduce sodium further byBuying foods labeled "no salt added," "sodium-free," "low sodium" or "very low sodium"
If you can't set aside that much time at once, remember that shorter bursts of activity count, too. You can break up your workout into three 10-minute sessions of aerobic exercise and get the same benefit as one 30-minute session.
If you sit for several hours a day, try to reduce the amount of time you spend sitting. Too much sedentary time can contribute to many health conditions.
Aim for five to 10 minutes of low-intensity physical activity — such as getting up to get a drink of water or going on a short walk — each hour. Consider setting a reminder in your email calendar or on your smartphone.
Stop your activity right away if you become severely out of breath or dizzy, or if you experience chest pain or pressure.
If you take any medication regularly, ask your doctor if exercising will make it work differently or change its side effects — or if your medication will affect the way your body reacts to exercise.
Add a serving of vegetables at lunch and at dinner.
Add a serving of fruit to your meals or as a snack. Canned and dried fruits are easy to use, but check that they don't have added sugar.
Drink low-fat or skim dairy products any time you would normally use full-fat or cream.
Limit meat to 6 ounces a day. Make some meals vegetarian.
Add more vegetables and dry beans to your diet.
Read food labels to choose products that are lower in sodium.
Increase your fibre intake gradually, though, as a sudden increase can cause cramp and constipation. And make sure to drink plenty of water - aim for 1.2 litres a day - to avoid cramp and constipation.
Add pulses – beans, lentils and peas – into your meals. They’re a cheap, low-fat source of fibre, protein, vitamins and minerals. Add pulses to soups, casseroles, rice and pasta, or serve baked beans (choose reduced-salt and sugar varieties) on wholemeal toast.
Don’t forget to eat the skin on fruits such as apples and pears.
Air-popped, plain popcorn. Homemade is best, to avoid the high fat, sugar or salt content in some commercial brands. Don’t add any sugar or butter.
Protein can also help you feel fuller for longer. Choose low-fat protein sources, such as: beans, peas and lentils, fish, lean cuts of meat, skinless white-meat poultry, lower-fat dairy products (milk, cheese, yoghurt), eggs, tofu.
Choose a starter instead of a main course.
Stop eating before you feel full.
Get active – try to get 150 minutes of physical activity every week from now on. If you’ve not done much for a while, aim to increase your activity levels gradually over the next few weeks
Walk more. Walking is one of the easiest and most effective ways of increasing your activity. Find a walking pal or join a walking group.
Take the stairs. Walk up and down stairs and escalators instead of taking the lift, or get off the lift a few floors early and use the stairs.
Take up running. Our popular Couch to 5K running plan is designed to get just about anyone running 5km in nine weeks.
Download our Strength and Flex podcast series and get fit in five weeks.
Get off public  transport a stop before your destination and walk the rest of the way.
If you need to drive to work, try to park further away from your destination and walk the rest of the way.
Be active with the family. Take your children to the swimming pool or play in the garden or park.
Frying adds fat to your meals. Try these healthier alternatives: grilling, poaching, steaming, boiling.
Don’t go hungry Hunger can make cravings worse. Keep your energy levels topped up with some healthier high-fibre snacks.
Drink water. Some people find water helps to calm cravings. Because water is filling, it can trick your body into thinking it’s satisfied. Hot drinks can work too.
Find an activity to take your mind off your craving. Go for a walk, have a bath, call a friend, listen to music.
Chew some gum. Some people find chewing sugar-free gum curbs their appetite. But don’t overdo it as chewing more than 20  sticks of gum over a day can make you ill.
Cravings are fleeting. Try holding off for 30 minutes and find something to distract you in the meantime. Chances are, your urge will pass once the time’s up.
Have a small portion. If the desire just won’t go away, give in, but do it the smart way: have a small portion and reduce your calorie intake later to stay on track
Turn your daily routine into an opportunity to get active, feel healthier and burn off some extra calories.
Get off the bus a stop early.
Go for a brisk walk at lunchtime.
Forget the lift, take the stairs.
Leave the car, walk instead.
Do a daily grocery shop on foot.
Eat breakfast. This should be your mantra. A healthier breakfast will set you up for the day and stop you becoming hungry before lunch. If you’re not hungry before leaving home, have breakfast at work. Bring your own Home-cooked food is often lower in calories and fat and cheaper than food bought on the high street. If sandwiches aren’t your thing, you could cook extra in the evenings and take the leftovers to work, saving you money.
Drink water. Drinking water regularly may help keep hunger pangs in check. You should aim to drink about six to eight glasses (1.2 litres) of fluid every day.
Plan your snacks. Keep a healthier snack within reach, such as fruit, veg (e.g. carrot sticks and reduced-fat hummus dip) or homemade popcorn (without fat, sugar or salt).
Go for wholegrain. When making sandwiches, go for wholegrain bread, which is more filling than white bread, and will keep you feeling fuller for longer. Wholemeal pitta bread and bagels are alternatives to brown loaf bread.
Mayonnaise is about 80% fat, and a just few dollops will turn a healthier meal into an unhealthy one. Try lower fat mayo, reduced-fat hummus, tzatziki or tomato salsa.
If you have a bag of crisps at lunch, go for oven-baked crisps, which can contain up to 70% less fat than regular crisps, or a plain rice cake.
Instead of fatty fillings such as sausages or bacon, go for lean meats, such as turkey or chicken, tuna and salmon or a hard-boiled egg. Remember to go easy on the mayo.
Choose drinks with a lower ABV (alcohol by volume) instead of your usual tipple. There’s an increasing range of lower alcohol choices available and most also have fewer calories.
Don’t drink on an empty stomach, as this can lead to snacking. If you do snack while drinking, avoid high-calorie snacks such as crisps, pork scratchings chips. Try lighter options such as pretzels, plain popcorn or oven-baked crisps.
Opt out and drink at your own pace.
Try cutting down with a friend, as you’ll be more likely to stick to it with moral support.
Eat a healthier dinner before you start drinking. Order or cook before you start drinking so you’re not tempted to go for the less healthy options.
Avoid ‘binge drinking’. Drinking a large amount of alcohol over a short period of time may be significantly worse for your health than frequently drinking small quantities.
Limit Coffee. Getting a caffeine fix could give you 193kcal or more in one hit if you opt for cappuccino or mocha. Switch to black or white coffee instead.
Limit Fruit juice and smoothies. A small glass of cranberry or apple juice racks up nearly 100kcal and a small 250ml yoghurt based smoothie can be about 136kcal. Go for fruit-only smoothies instead.
Limit Fizzy drinks, like Lemonade or cola. They are not only bad for our teeth but also can provide 140kcal in just one can. Switch to diet versions and think of it as a one-off treat.
Skipping breakfast can lead to unplanned and unhealthy mid-morning snacking or bingeing at lunchtime. Go for breakfasts containing fibre, such as wholegrain bread or porridge.
Skipping any meal is a bad idea. It may reduce your calorie intake for a brief period, but you’ll be much hungrier later on and more likely to overeat. Eat regularly and don’t starve from one meal to the next. Have some healthier snacks handy just in case.
Losing track of your calories or mindless munching can easily sabotage an otherwise well-planned diet. Make a note of every bite to stay within your calorie allowance. Unhealthy snacking
High-calorie snacks will do your waistline no favors, but healthier snacks can help you control hunger and keep your energy levels up. Choose snacks with fibre such as fruit, veg and wholegrain food.
Drinking too many calories can hamper weight loss.  Some fancy coffees, sweet fizzy drinks, smoothies and alcoholic drinks can pack a calorie punch. Go for water (still or sparkling) with a slice of lemon, tea or coffee with reduced-fat milk, or herbal tea.
Your weight can fluctuate from day to day, so weighing yourself daily may not give a true picture of your weight loss. Weigh yourself once a week and use other goals to measure progress.
Take care not to cancel out the calories you’ve burned during exercise by eating more afterwards or you might end up putting on weight. For a low calorie post-workout snack, read 10 surprising 100 calorie snacks at nhs.uk/100-calorie-snacks.
Don’t skip a meal. Don’t skip breakfast or lunch to build  calorie credits for your evening out.
If you go over your calorie allowance, don’t worry: simply reduce your calorie intake the following days.
Try to stop eating before you feel overly full.
If you can’t resist having a starter or a dessert, find someone to share it with.
Downsize your portions. To avoid eating too much, order a starter and a side dish as your main course instead of one of the larger mains on the menu.
Avoid deep-fried foods. Avoid food that is deep or shallow fried, battered, pan-fried, marked as ‘crispy’ or with pastry. These are high in fat. Instead, look out for grilled, roasted, poached, steamed or baked dishes.
Avoid cheese, cream or butter-based sauces, which are high in fat and pack a calorie punch. Instead, go for tomato or other vegetable-based sauces.
Beware of high-calorie salads. Watch out for high-calorie toppings such as croutons, cheese, bacon and nuts. Ask for salad dressing on the side and add only as much as you need.
Eat slowly, enjoy every mouthful. You’ll feel satisfied before you feel full and have more chance to take part in the conversation and enjoy the atmosphere.
Go for healthier options such as fruit based desserts, including crumble. If you can’t resist a decadent dessert, share it with a friend.
Don’t drink your calories. Alcohol and sugary soft drinks can be high in calories. Go for water or sugar-free drinks.
Choose sauce-free dishes, such as grilled meat, baked fish or tandoori dishes. Some sauces and dressings can push up a dish’s calorie content.
Avoid cheese and cream-based pasta sauces, such as alfredo or carbonara.
Have thin pizzas with veg toppings, tomato-based sauces, vegetable-based soups, grilled dishes.
Avoid cheesy and meaty pizzas, salami, creamy sauces, garlic bread, lasagne.
Have stir-fries, steamed dumplings, steamed veg, plain boiled rice, steamed fish or chicken.
Avoid anything deep-fried or sweet and sour, prawn toast, spring rolls, egg fried rice.
Thai food is great as it tends to feature lots of steamed or stir-fried vegetables. Have salads, stir-fries, steamed rice, broth soups.
Avoid coconut milk dishes, fried rice, peanut sauce, crispy noodles.
Have tomato-based sauces, tandoori dishes, plain or basmati rice.
Avoid bhajis, poppadoms, creamy curries, pilau rice, naan bread.
Try lean meat, grilled salmon or white fish. And for side dishes, stick to jacket potatoes, steamed vegetables and salad.
A portion of fruit or veg is 80g. Fresh, frozen, tinned and juiced fruit and veg all count towards your 5 A DAY. Use the rough guide below to work out whether you’re eating your 5 A DAY.
Add beans, lentils and pulses to stews, bakes and salads.
Add carrots and broccoli to a roast dinner.
Eat more salad or vegetable-based dishes.
Have vegetables as snacks. Baby carrots, radishes, and sugar snap peas all make ideal snack food. They’re convenient, easy to pack in handy portions and they require very little preparation.
Swap sauces based on cheese or cream – on pasta, rice or a baked potato – for tomato or vegetable-based sauces. Throw in some kidney beans or chickpeas to make the sauce extra filling. These same ingredients can make a filling vegetable or bean-based soups as well.
Add some crunch to your lunchtime sandwiches with lettuce, tomatoes, cucumber or grated carrot. This will help fill you up.
Add green, leafy veg to soups or stews. Veg such as kale or swiss chard are loaded with calcium and iron. This is a really easy way to incorporate them into your meals.
Avoid Cereal bar as most cereal bars are high in sugar and fat. Look out for bars that are low in sugar, fat and salt.
Swap Cake for a plain currant bun, fruit scone or malt loaf. Avoid toppings like butter, icing, jam or cream.
Take your mind off food with some reading.
Listen to a favorite song.
Write down a fun thing you’re going to do today, or this week.
Watch a movie.
Go for a walk.
Have a bath.
Surf the web.
Do some breathing exercises.
Do some exercise.
Trim trails are made up of simple pieces of exercise equipment dotted around parks and recreation areas.
Turn to Turmeric. Add turmeric to meals, or sprinkle it in your tea.
Whether in front of the TV or using your computer at work, maintaining correct posture is essential in fighting pain. Keep your head directly above a tall, straight spine to prevent strain on your back and neck muscles.
Learn deep breathing or meditation to help you relax.
Reduce stress in your life. Stress intensifies chronic pain.
Cut back on alcohol, which can worsen sleep problems.
Join a support group. Meet others living with chronic pain.
Don't smoke. It can worsen chronic pain.
Learn biofeedback to decrease migraine and tension headache pain.
Eat a healthy diet if you're living with chronic pain.
Find ways to distract yourself from pain so you enjoy life more.
Get enough sleep
Get some gentle exercise
Breathe right to ease pain
Distract yourself
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve), might relieve acute back pain. Take these medications as directed by your doctor, because overuse can cause serious side effects.
Refined wheat products, like white bread, stimulate your body’s inflammatory response. That’s why eating a lot of refined pastas, cereals, and grain products might make your arthritis pain flare up. To avoid this, try to choose whole grains whenever possible. Avoid bread products that have been heavily processed. Gluten-containing whole grains and yeast additives may also impact arthritis pain.
Substitute dairy with a healthy source of fats, like almond milk, or an anti-inflammatory, like flax milk. Make sure to avoid carrageenan in these milks, which is an additive derived from seaweed that can cause gastrointestinal symptoms and weaken intestinal permeability.
Stretching on a regular basis can help relieve stiff, achy, or painful joints. All stretches should be done gently. Be sure to stop if you feel pain. Use caution when exercising. If you don’t feel pain after the first few days of exercise, gradually increase the time you spend on this activity.
Get more rest: Eliminate or reduce activities that make your symptoms worse, especially during a flare-up.
Lose weight: Excess weight puts more pressure on your hips and knees.
Cut Extra Calories. Your knees will feel better if you keep your waistline trim. When you drop those extra pounds, you'll put less stress on your joints. A good way to lower your calorie count: Take smaller portions, avoid sugary foods and drinks, and eat mostly plant-based foods.
Eat More Fruits and Veggies. Feel free to eat plenty of these. Many are loaded with antioxidants -- substances that can help protect your cells from damage. Some antioxidants, found in fruits and veggies like apples, onions, shallots, and strawberries, may also help reduce joint inflammation and pain
Add Omega-3 Fatty Acids. Omega-3s may help relieve your joint pain and decrease morning stiffness. They work by reducing inflammation in your body.
Get Enough Vitamin C. A key element for joint health, vitamin C helps build collagen and connective tissue. A lot of tasty foods can give you this nutrient. Try citrus fruits, red peppers, strawberries, broccoli, cabbage, and kale. Aim for the recommended amount of 75 milligrams a day for women or 90 milligrams a day for men.
Watch High Cooking Temperatures. Meat cooked at high temperatures makes compounds that can cause inflammation in your body. They're called advanced glycation end products (AGEs), and they're linked to diseases such as arthritis, heart disease, and diabetes. You can reduce your levels of AGEs if you cut back on grilled, fried, broiled, and microwaved meats. It’s also helpful to limit processed foods, as they are often cooked at high temperatures.
Exercise. Exercise can increase your endurance and strengthen the muscles around your joint, making your joint more stable. Try walking, biking or swimming. If you feel new joint pain, stop.
Lose weight. Obesity or even being somewhat overweight increases the stress on your weight-bearing joints, such as your knees and your hips. Even a small amount of weight loss can relieve some pressure and reduce your pain.
Capsaicin. Topical capsaicin — an active component in hot chili peppers — applied over an arthrititic joint may be an alternative for people who can't take NSAIDs. It may not be noticeably helpful unless consistently applied three to four times a day for several weeks. Be sure to wash your hands well after applying capsaicin cream.
Knee taping. Strapping tape may help ease the pain of knee osteoarthritis. Ask a doctor or physical therapist to demonstrate how best to place the tape.
Use assistive devices. Assistive devices can make it easier to go about your day without stressing your painful joint. A cane may take weight off your knee or hip as you walk. Carry the cane in the hand opposite the leg that hurts.
Aim for 2 cups of fruit, 3 cups of vegetables, and 3 oz of whole grains per day.
Quit smoking. Smoking contributes to sleep apnea by increasing inflammation and fluid retention in your throat and upper airway.
Avoid alcohol, sleeping pills, and sedatives, especially before bedtime, because they relax the muscles in the throat and interfere with breathing.
Exercise regularly. As well as helping you lose weight, regular exercise can have a major effect on the duration and quality of sleep. Aerobic and resistance training can help reduce sleep apnea symptoms, while yoga is also good for strengthening the muscles in your airways and improving breathing.
The tennis ball trick. To keep yourself from rolling onto your back while you sleep, sew a tennis ball into a pocket on the back of your pajama top. Or wedge a pillow stuffed with tennis balls behind your back.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help ease the symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea even without weight loss. A good goal is to try to get 30 minutes of moderate activity, such as a brisk walk, most days of the week.
Avoid alcohol and certain medications such as tranquilizers and sleeping pills. These relax the muscles in the back of your throat, interfering with breathing.
When cooking, limit your use of premade sauces, mixes, and “instant” products such as rice, noodles, and ready-made pasta.
Flavor foods with herbs and spices instead of salt.
For major health benefits, do at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes (1 hour and 15 minutes) of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity each week. Another option is to do a combination of both. A general rule is that 2 minutes of moderate-intensity activity counts the same as 1 minute of vigorous-intensity activity.
For even more health benefits, do 300 minutes (5 hours) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of vigorous-intensity activity each week (or a combination of both). The more active you are, the more you will benefit.
If you're healthy but not already active, do at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each week. If possible, spread this activity across the week.
Space your activities to avoid getting too tired.
Exercise (walk or cycle) at a calm, easy pace.
Pace yourself so you can easily hold a conversation while you exercise.
Exercise when you are rested.
Practice relaxing by resting, meditating, or taking slow deep breaths.
Focus on whole grains because they have more fiber and nutrients than do refined grains.
For instance, use brown rice instead of white rice, whole-wheat pasta instead of regular pasta and whole-grain bread instead of white bread.
Fresh and frozen vegetables are both good choices. When buying frozen and canned vegetables, choose those labeled as low sodium or without added salt.
To increase the number of servings you fit in daily, be creative. In a stir-fry, for instance, cut the amount of meat in half and double up on the vegetables.
When you eat sweets, choose those that are fat-free or low-fat, such as sorbets, fruit ices, jelly beans, hard candy, graham crackers or low-fat cookies.
Use only half your typical serving of butter, margarine, or salad dressing, and use low-fat or fat-free condiments.
Instead of snacking on chips or sweets, eat unsalted pretzels or nuts, raisins, low-fat and fat-free yogurt, frozen yogurt, unsalted plain popcorn with no butter, and raw vegetables.
Swap white bread for wholemeal or wholegrain varieties.
Swap sugary cereals for high-fibre cereals such as wholegrain wheat cereals, unsweetened muesli, or porridge oats, and don’t forget to check the salt content.
Vegetables are a good source of fibre, so try swapping some of the things on your plate for more veg. Aim for two portions of veg on your plate at dinner.
Swap white rice and pasta for  wholemeal versions – simply doing this can double the amount of fibre you’ve eaten.
Stock up on healthier snacks containing fibre such as: Fruit – fresh, canned or frozen.
While eating out, avoid appetizers including bread, nuts or olives.
Stay clear of ‘supersize’ or ‘go large’ options.
If you’re having dessert, share it and go for fruit-based options.
Exercise in your local park.
Cycle or walk part, if not all, of your journey to work.
Exercise before or after work or during your lunch break. Your workplace may have a gym or you may have access to a swimming pool or squash courts.
Brush your teeth with toothpaste. Once your mouth is minty clean and fresh, some people find it helps to get rid of a craving.
SWAP crisps FOR pretzels
SWAP chocolate FOR dates
SWAP fried chips FOR oven chips
SWAP fizzy drinks FOR diet versions
SWAP deep pan pizza FOR thin crust
SWAP sweet and sour FOR stir-fry
SWAP sweets FOR raisins
Stick to your daily recommended units. Men shouldn’t regularly drink more than 3-4 units of alcohol a day.
Alternate an alcoholic drink with a diet soft drink or water – this will help  to prevent you becoming dehydrated.
Stick to your daily meal routine to keep  your appetite under control throughout  the day.
Stick to one course in restaurants.  It’s perfectly acceptable to have just a  main course. And don’t feel the need  to finish your plate
Ask what’s in a dish or how it’s been cooked – the restaurant should be happy to tell you. If you aren’t sure, ask for a dish to come without a ‘suspect’ item Try to keep track of exactly what you eat and the amount so you can sum up the calories accurately.
Eat Half a grapefruit, An apple, 2 plums or satsumas, 3 heaped tablespoons of peas,sweetcorn, beans or pulses, 2 broccoli spears, A dessert bowl of salad leaves.
Aim to make your meal more filling by adding vegetables, and then cut back on another, high-calorie ingredient or food, or simply eat less. This way, you can feel full while eating fewer calories.
Aim for two portions of veg on your plate.
If you’re having shepherd’s pie, have some peas with it too.
Stock up on frozen vegetables. They’re quick and easy to prepare in the microwave or on the hob. You can choose single vegetables – such as peas, carrots, green beans or cauliflower – or mixed veg.
Cooked breakfast. Swap a fried tomato or mushroom for a grilled tomato or mushroom. Or, try an omelette stuffed with onion and peppers.
Instead of Crisps, choose lower-fat, lower-salt oven-baked crisps, which contain up to 70% less fat than standard varieties.
Instead of Pork scratchings, choose  homemade air-popped, plain popcorn.
Instead of Ice-cream, opt for lower-fat frozen yoghurt, or try sorbet made from sweetened water flavoured with fruit.
Instead of  Chocolate have a lower-calorie hot instant chocolate drink. You can also get chocolate with coffee and chocolate with malt varieties.
Swap Biscuits for oat cakes, oat biscuits or unsalted rice cakes, which contain fibre.
Instead of Sweets, try dried fruit such as raisins, sultanas, dates, apricots or figs, which all count towards your 5 A DAY.
Instead of Sugary fizzy drinks, try mixing sparkling water with unsweetened fruit juice, which counts towards your 5 A DAY, or choose a lower-calorie diet variety.
Phone a friend.
Clean the car.
Work up a sweat digging, planting and path-clearing at one of 95 free Green Gyms around the country run by The Conservation Volunteers.
Stay Hydrated.  According to the Mayo Clinic, dehydration may aggravate the symptoms of some chronic conditions, like headaches and back pain.
Boost chronic pain relief with the natural endorphins from exercise.
Track your pain level and activities every day. To effectively treat your pain, your doctor needs to know how you've been feeling between visits.
Complementary therapies may help you feel better by reducing your pain or stress. These therapies include: Acupuncture, Biofeedback, Guided imagery, Healing touch, Massage, Meditation, Yoga.
Stay physically active
Share your story about pain
Never use an over-the-counter NSAID for more than 10 days without checking with your doctor. Over-the-counter NSAIDs are effective pain relievers, but they are intended for short-term use. When taking NSAIDs for long periods of time, your doctor should closely follow how you’re doing so she can watch for side effects and change your treatment if needed
Stick with foods that are baked without any oil additives. When you need to use oil to cook with, opt for a small amount of olive or avocado oil, instead.
Change your diet: Research shows that a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids can reduce the signs of arthritis in cartilage.
Use compresses: Apply heat to a stiff hip joint or cold to swollen areas.
Use Olive Oil in Place of Other Fats. One study shows that a compound in olive oil, called oleocanthal, helps prevent inflammation. It works in much the same way that NSAIDs do. Olive oils with the strongest flavor have the highest amount. About 3 1/2 tablespoons of olive oil offers the same relief as 200 milligrams of ibuprofen. But that much oil also gives you about 400 calories.
Use heat and cold to manage pain. Both heat and cold can relieve pain in your joint. Heat also relieves stiffness, and cold can relieve muscle spasms and pain.
Apply over-the-counter pain creams. Creams and gels available at drugstores may provide temporary relief from osteoarthritis pain. Some creams numb the pain by creating a hot or cool sensation. Other creams contain medications, such as aspirin-like compounds, that are absorbed into your skin. Pain creams work best on joints that are close to the surface of your skin, such as your knees and fingers.
Take a walk. Exercise that gets your heart pumping is good. Aim for about 30 minutes—at least three times a week—of gentle aerobic exercise like brisk walking, jogging, or swimming.
Go in the water. Aquatic therapy is a low-impact activity that helps ease back pain. The natural resistance from the water promotes muscle strength and reduces pressure on your bones and joints. Even if you’re not swimming, you can walk in waist-high water or perform arm and leg exercises against the resistance of the water.
Stretching serves two main purposes: It loosens up tense muscles and strengthens those that need some help. Depending on the location and cause of your back pain, certain stretches can reduce back pain, while others can cause more pain. Stretching should be gentle, so stop any stretching exercise that causes pain. If you force a stretch, you could do more damage than good. Consult your doctor for help in deciding the best stretches for your back pain. Once you get the hang of it, regular stretching can ease back pain quickly and effectively.
Fix Your Posture, Most of us spend a good amount of time sitting down, whether it’s at work or during the commute to and from work. Sitting down for long periods of time may be more harmful than you realize. But you can minimize the impact by sitting properly. Correct posture in a chair means having all the bones in your spine lined up neatly, like a stack of perfectly aligned blocks. This means keeping your feet flat on the floor and your computer keyboard within easy reach so you’re not leaning forward. This is one part of proper office ergonomics.
Adjust How You Sleep. Sleeping on your back is best. Spending a few nights on the floor with a pillow underneath your feet can really help your back, even if it might be a little trickier to stay sound asleep. If you’re a side sleeper, putting a pillow between your knees can help by allowing your muscles to relax more. Sleeping on your stomach can be bad for your back. If this is the only way you can fall asleep, the Mayo Clinic recommends placing a pillow under your lower abdomen and pelvis to prevent back strain.
Ask for a Massage. Gently massaging a sore or tense muscle is one of the most effective ways to loosen it up and relieve pain. However, not everyone can afford a personal masseuse when back pain kicks in. So, consider asking your partner for a massage! For added benefit, ask your loved one to use some medicated ointment to double your pain relief.
Try Rubs and Ointments. There are plenty of pain rubs and ointments on the shelves. Some standards include Icy Hot or Tiger Balm. The effectiveness of these medications can vary from user to user, so go with what feels best and suits your needs. Some typical turn-offs with these ointments are the smell and difficulty of putting it on your own back. One popular product is Biofreeze, a natural compound with a cooling sensation without the greasy texture. It comes in menthol and unscented varieties as well as a spray form.
Take Over-the-Counter Medicines. here are many over-the-counter medicines for pain, even some targeted for back pain, such as Tylenol or Advil. Sometimes back pain can be so severe that it might require use of painkillers. Be sure to follow the usage guidelines and take only the recommended amount. If you’re taking pain medication regularly for your back pain, you should talk to your doctor, as these medicines may have more unwanted side effects in the long run.
Slow It Down. Too often, the body’s aches and pains aren’t caused by physical injury but because we push ourselves too hard. Make sure you take your time and schedule breaks when doing physical activity if your back hurts. Stress also adds to how your body reacts to pain, so the calmer and more relaxed you are, the more your back will thank you.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve), might relieve acute back pain. Take these medications as directed by your doctor, because overuse can cause serious side effects.
Certain sleeping positions can help ease your back pain, so find one that is most comfortable for you. Try sleeping with a pillow between or underneath your legs for extra support.
Get a good mattress. The type of mattress you need depends on your body type. A soft mattress can be good if your hips are wider than your waist because it will let your spine stay straight while you sleep. If your hips and waist already line up straight, a harder mattress might feel better because it will give you more support.
Get in and out of bed carefully. It may sound obvious, but be extra careful when you get in and out of bed. Bending forward at your waist or making quick and jerking motions can cause you more back pain. Take your time and roll over onto one side and use your arms to push your way up. You can then swing your legs out of bed to stand up slowly. Reverse the movements when it’s time to lie down at night.
Wear Comfortable Shoes. To help keep your back feeling healthy, choose comfortable, well-cushioned shoes. Although low-heeled shoes are best for everyday wear, heels aren’t necessarily a no-no. Choose a pair with a cushioned sole. Cushioned soles reduce the impact when you’re walking on hard surfaces. This helps protect your back, hips, and knees.
Start Exercise Gradually. Exercise is a great way to keep your back healthy. But if you’ve been inactive for a while, start slowly. Begin with a low-impact exercise such as walking, stationary biking, or swimming for about 30 minutes a day. Adding gentle stretching or yoga may also help your muscles. Ask your doctor what types of exercise are best for you.
Take a Break. If you do a lot of sitting or standing during the day, take a break every so often to move around. Just a short walk around the house or office can help relieve tight joints and muscles. You can also try doing some gentle stretches. When a break isn’t possible, make sure to change your position occasionally.
Stand Smart.  Standing for long periods can be stressful on your lower back. If you have to stand for work, try placing one foot on a stool or other low object. Then change feet every so often. This will help take the pressure off your lower back. Wearing cushioned shoes or standing on a thick rubber mat can also help relieve pressure when you have to stand for long hours.
Learn to Lift Properly. Lifting children and other heavy objects is a common source of back pain. Follow these tips to protect your back. Get close to the object you’re lifting. Keep your elbows as close to your trunk as possible, trying not to reach your arms away from your body. Bend your knees and lift with your legs and stomach muscles. Don’t twist as you lift.
Adjust Your Driving Position. Driving long distances can put a strain on your low back. Follow these tips to help keep your back feeling good, even on the longest trips. Move your seat forward so you don’t have to bend to reach the steering wheel. Put a rolled towel, small pillow, or other lumbar support behind your lower back. Take a break every hour on long trips to get out of the car and walk around.
Know What Exercises to Avoid. If you’ve had a back injury or are dealing with certain back conditions, there may be some exercises that you shouldn’t do at all until your doctor gives approval. These may include contact sports, racket sports, golf, weight lifting, dancing, jogging, and sit-ups. Your doctor may also advise against doing leg lifts while lying on your stomach. Ask your doctor about any other specific exercises you should avoid.
Push With Care. Activities that require pushing, such as vacuuming, using a stroller, and mowing the lawn can strain your lower back. Again, keep your elbows as close to your trunk as possible. Don’t push with straight arms. Choosing a lightweight stroller or vacuum can also help. If the activity still feels like too much, try doing a little at a time.
Choose the Best Sleep Position. Sleeping on your side is the most common sleeping position. Placing a small pillow between your knees helps keep the back in a good position. If you must sleep on your back, try using a pillow under your knees. Avoid sleeping on your stomach, as this can make back pain worse.
Keep Your Weight Down. Carrying extra weight on your body means more work for your lower back muscles. This is especially true if the extra pounds are around your waist. The heavier you are, the more impact there is on your back with each step. Losing weight can also help protect the muscles and joints in your knees and hips.
It’s important not to ignore severe symptoms. Seek medical attention immediately if you have a headache that starts suddenly or a headache accompanied by slurred speech, loss of balance, or a high fever. This can indicate a much more serious problem, such as a stroke, tumor, or an aneurysm.
Rest in a Dark, Quiet Room. Stress is one of the main causes of headaches. Relieving tense muscles may help calm tension headaches, the most common type of headache. People who have tension headaches may also feel overly sensitive to either light or sound. Rest or sit in a dimly lit room. Close your eyes and try to relax your back, neck, and shoulders.
Try Caffeine. Caffeine may help relieve headache symptoms by helping pain relief drugs work better and faster. Caffeine added to pain relievers can make them more effective in treating headaches. That’s why caffeine is often an ingredient in medications.
Relax to Ease Pain. Deep breathing exercises and mental imagery may reduce stress and ease headache pain. This quick technique combines both: Take several deep breaths. Exhale slowly, relaxing areas that feel tight and cramped, while picturing a peaceful scene. Drop your chin toward your chest, then gently and slowly rotate your head in a half circle from one side to the other. Take another deep breath and exhale slowly.
Treat Pain With Heat or Cold. Cold and heat may relieve pain and muscle tension that can accompany headaches. A hot shower or moist heat applied to the back of the neck may ease symptoms of infrequent tension headaches. Try a hot water bottle, a warm towel, or a warm compress. If you prefer cold, try wrapping an ice pack in a towel. Then put it where you hurt -- on your forehead, temples, or neck.
Massage Away Tension Headaches. Massage can undo clenched muscles and help you relax, so it can be especially good for stress or tension headaches. Have someone else gently massage your head, neck, and shoulder muscles. Or do it yourself with a targeted mini-massage. Gently rub the painful spot on your head with your fingertips for several seconds. Rest and repeat as needed.
Exercise to Ease Tension. Neck exercises may ease tension headache pain caused by holding your head in one position for too long. Here’s an exercise that may help. Place your palm on your forehead. Using your neck muscles, press forehead lightly forward against palm. Keep your head upright, your hand and arm still for resistance.
Try an Acupressure Technique. Acupressure may help ease headache pain. Place your thumbs near the base of your skull. Find the depressions on both sides of where your head meets your neck. They are just outside of the thick muscle that runs down the middle (about 2 inches from the center). Press in and slightly upward with your thumbs until you feel slight pain. While pressing move your thumbs in small circles for 1-2 minutes.
Over-the-counter drugs acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium can ease headache pain. Drugs that combine acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine may work better for some people than when each is taken alone. But using any headache medicine for more than three days a week may cause medication overuse headaches. See your doctor if you need medication this often.
Include foods rich in fiber and healthy carbohydrates in your diet. Eating fruits, vegetables, and whole grains will help keep your blood glucose levels steady.
Eat at regular intervals
Be careful not to overeat.
Control your weight and keep your heart healthy. That means keeping refined carbohydrates, sweets, and animal fats to a minimum.
Get about half an hour of aerobic activity daily to help keep your heart healthy. Exercise helps to control blood glucose, too.
Use a home monitoring system to test your own blood sugar levels between visits to your doctor. Your doctor will tell you how often you should do that and what your target range should be.
If you occasionally like to have something sweet, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options.
Make sure that most of your carb choices are whole-grain, high-fiber options. For example, if you’d like to have a piece of chocolate cake with frosting, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options such as beans.
Opt for low-fat animal protein sources and healthy fats.
Try replacing the red meat on your plate with omega-3 fatty acid-rich cold-water fish like salmon, mackerel, and herring.
Fruits are often packed with fiber, as well as vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. Be sure to choose whole fruits over juice to get the beneficial fiber. The more skin on the fruit, the more fiber it contains.
Make sure that most of your carb choices are whole-grain, high-fiber options. For example, if you’d like to have a piece of chocolate cake with frosting, eat it immediately after eating a balanced meal with lean protein, healthy fats, vegetables, and high-fiber carb options such as beans.
Vegetables are also a great addition to every meal. They are low in calories and high in water content so they can help you feel full with fewer calories. Go for color and increased variety. Some good options include: broccoli, spinach, peppers, carrots, green beans, tomatoes,  celery, cabbage.
If you have diabetes, you should spread your carbohydrate intake throughout the day to avoid unnecessary spikes in your blood sugar levels. And be sure to choose portions that help you meet or maintain your weight goals.
Physical activity -- from working out to doing chores -- lowers your blood sugar. It helps your cells use insulin. It also helps your muscles use glucose. Make sure you check your blood sugar before and after exercise
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush your teeth at least twice a day, floss your teeth once a day and schedule regular dental exams. Consult your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes, and moisturize with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness and swelling. Consult your doctor if you have a sore or other foot problem that isn't healing.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your doctor to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of various diabetes complications. Talk to your doctor about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol, as well as drink mixers, can cause either high or low blood sugar, depending on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so in moderation and always with a meal.
Eat healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Get physical. Aim for a minimum of 30 minutes of moderate physical activity a day. Take a brisk daily walk. Ride a bike. Swim laps. If you can't fit in a long workout, spread 10-minute or longer sessions throughout the day.
Lose excess pounds. If you're overweight, losing 7 percent of your body weight can reduce the risk of diabetes. To keep your weight in a healthy range, focus on permanent changes to your eating and exercise habits. Motivate yourself by remembering the benefits of losing weight, such as a healthier heart, more energy and improved self-esteem.
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your abdomen, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus. If your weight is healthy, work to maintain it. If you are overweight or obese, work to slowly lose weight — no more than 1 or 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kilogram) a week. Ask your doctor for help in devising a weight-loss strategy that will work for you.
Avoid tight-fitting clothing. Clothes that fit tightly around your waist put pressure on your abdomen and the lower esophageal sphincter.
Avoid foods and drinks that trigger heartburn. Everyone has specific triggers. Common triggers such as fatty or fried foods, tomato sauce, alcohol, chocolate, mint, garlic, onion, and caffeine may make heartburn worse. Avoid foods you know will trigger your heartburn.
Eat smaller meals. Avoid overeating by eating smaller meals.
Don't lie down after a meal. Wait at least three hours after eating before lying down or going to bed.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn at night or while trying to sleep, put gravity to work for you. Place wood or cement blocks under the feet of your bed so that the head end is raised by 6 to 9 inches. If it's not possible to elevate your bed, you can insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Wedges are available at drugstores and medical supply stores. Raising your head with additional pillows is not effective.
Don't smoke. Smoking decreases the lower esophageal sphincter's ability to function properly.
Herbal remedies sometimes used for GERD symptoms include licorice, slippery elm, chamomile, marshmallow and others. Herbal remedies can have serious side effects, and they may interfere with medications. Ask your doctor about a safe dosage before beginning any herbal remedy.
Techniques to calm stress and anxiety may reduce signs and symptoms of GERD. Ask your doctor about relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation or guided imagery.
Acupuncture involves inserting thin needles into specific points on your body. Limited evidence suggests it may help people with heartburn, but major studies have not proved a benefit. Ask your doctor whether acupuncture is safe for you.
Lean meats, such as chicken, turkey, fish, and seafood, are low fat and reduce symptoms of acid reflux. Try them grilled, broiled, baked, and poached.
Sources of healthy fats include avocados, walnuts, flaxseed, olive oil, sesame oil, and sunflower oil. Reduce your intake of saturated fats and trans fats and replace them with these healthier unsaturated fats.
The following foods have a high fat content. Avoid these or eat them sparingly: french fries and onion rings; full-fat dairy products, such as butter, whole milk, regular cheese, and sour cream; fatty or fried cuts of beef, pork, or lamb; bacon fat, ham fat, and lard; desserts or snacks such as ice cream and potato chips; cream sauces, gravies, and creamy salad dressings.
Take antacids and other medications that reduce acid production.
Chew gum that isn’t peppermint or spearmint flavored.
Remain upright for at least two hours after eating.
Don’t eat 3 to 4 hours before bed.
Stop smoking.
Don’t overeat.
Raise the head of your bed 4 to 6 inches to reduce reflux symptoms while sleeping.
If you have a clotting disorder, blood thinners, such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), may be recommended to prevent clots in the vessels feeding your bones.
Limit alcohol. Heavy drinking is one of the top risk factors for developing avascular necrosis.
Keep cholesterol levels low. Tiny bits of fat are the most common substance blocking blood supply to bones.
Monitor steroid use. Make sure your doctor knows about any past or present use of high-dose steroids. Steroid-related bone damage appears to worsen with repeated courses of high-dose steroids.
Some forms of hypothyroidism are caused by a lack of sufficient iodine. In such cases, using iodized salt or iodine-enriched foods can be beneficial. But eating too much iodine can have the opposite effect and suppress thyroid gland activity. Check with your doctor before taking supplements.
Although a high-fiber diet is usually recommended, too much fiber eaten right after taking thyroid medicines may interfere with their absorption. Wait two hours before you eat a high-fiber meal (one with more than about 15 grams of fiber).
Caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol can also influence the effectiveness of thyroid medicine. Ask your doctor for tips on how to regulate or reduce your consumption.
Get Your Heart Pumping. If left untreated, having low levels of thyroid hormones can reduce cardiac fitness. Those with hypothyroidism are also at a greater risk of ventricular arrhythmias, or a rapid heart beat. In addition to medications, exercise also plays a key role in strengthening the cardiovascular system.
If you have hypothyroidism, take thyroid hormone replacement medication as directed by your doctor — generally with an empty stomach. It's also important to note that too much dietary fiber can impair the absorption of synthetic thyroid hormone. Certain foods, supplements and medications can have the same effect.
Avoid taking your thyroid hormone at the same time as: Walnuts, Soybean flour, Cottonseed meal, Iron supplements or multivitamins containing iron, Calcium supplements, Antacids that contain aluminum or magnesium, Some ulcer medications, such as sucralfate (Carafate), Some cholesterol-lowering drugs, such as those containing cholestyramine (Prevalite) and colestipol (Colestid). To avoid potential interactions, eat these foods or use these products several hours before or after you take your thyroid medication.
From strawberries to blueberries to raspberries—the choice is yours. Berries pack a powerful punch because they’re bursting with antioxidants, which keep your immune system strong. Eat a serving of berries every day.
Broccoli is part of the goitrogen family—foods that can decrease the amount of thyroid hormone your thyroid gland produces. Foods that belong to this group are known as “cruciferous” foods. Not a broccoli fan? Other cruciferous veggies include cauliflower, kale, and cabbage. Eat one or more servings of these veggies a day.
Turkey is an excellent source of protein—important because your body needs protein for energy and to build and maintain muscle. Weight loss is a common hyperthyroidism symptom, so eating enough protein can help ensure you stay at a healthy weight. Don’t eat meat? No problem—you can get protein from beans and nuts. Just try to eat protein at every meal.
If you have hypothyroidism, you probably feel tired throughout the day. What helps? Establishing a sleep schedule and sticking to it helps. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day—including weekends. In general, the sweet spot for sleep is between 7 and 9 hours.
Reduce stress by listening to music, taking a long bath or meditating in a quiet place
Avoid caffeine and other stimulants as they may worsen certain symptoms such as fast heartbeat, nervousness, or concentration difficulties
Avoid food and supplements containing iodine
Get regular exercise. Exercise in general will help you feel better and improve your muscle tone and cardiovascular system. Weight-bearing exercise is important for people with Graves' disease because it helps maintain bone density. Exercise also can help reduce your appetite and increase your energy level.
Learn relaxation techniques. Many relaxation techniques can help you maintain a positive outlook, especially when coping with illness. It is well-documented that in Graves' disease stress is a risk factor, so learning to relax and achieve balance in your life can help maintain physical and mental well-being.
Get enough calcium and vitamin D. Because hyperthyroidism may contribute to thinning bones, it's important to get enough calcium every day to help prevent osteoporosis. The Institute of Medicine recommends 1,000 milligrams (mg) of calcium a day for adults ages 19 to 50 and men ages 51 to 70. That calcium recommendation increases to 1,200 mg a day if you're a woman age 51 or older or a man age 71 or older. The Institute of Medicine also recommends 600 international units (IUs) of vitamin D a day for adults ages 19 to 70 and 800 IUs a day for adults age 71 and older. Talk to your doctor about appropriate dietary guidelines for you.
Certain essential oils like frankincense and myrrh reduce stress on the body and can improve thyroid function.  Put 2 drops of frankincense oil daily on the roof of the mouth and apply 2-3 drops Myrrh oil directly to the thyroid area 2x daily.
Avoid Gluten as a gluten-free diet is beneficial for people with thyroid issues.
Avoid conventional Dairy. People with thyroid problems can also benefit from a A1 casein free diet.
Avoid Artificial flavorings or dyes. These can influence thyroid function, therefore it is best to avoid them.
Avoid Sugar as it suppresses immune function and contributes to autoimmune disease.
Avoid packaged foods as it can contain GMO foods that have been linked to autoimmune conditions.
Drink green juices. Fresh green juices from nutrient dense vegetables such as kale, spinach and spirulina can help provide vital nutrients.
Eat whole foods. Processed foods should be avoided, so aim for fresh fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins.
Eat anti-inflammatory herbs. Many herbs such as basil, rosemary, and oregano can be anti-inflammatory and help improve thyroid function.
Eat ginger as it is an anti-inflammatory herb that can help boost immune function.
Eat bone broth. Bone broth supports detoxification and aids in healing of leaky gut issues that can make hyperthyroidism worse.
Drink lots of water.
Take a warm bath.
Apply a heating pad to the abdomen.
Avoid coffee, citrus juices, spicy foods, and alcohol.
Drink plenty of water to help you urinate more frequently and flush bacteria out of your urinary tract before an infection begins.
Urinate as soon as possible after sexual intercourse.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement to prevent bacteria from spreading to the urethra from the anal region.
Avoid using feminine products near the genital area that can irritate the urethra, such as douches, deodorant sprays, and powders.
Maintain personal hygiene and wash your genitals every day.
Take showers instead of baths.
Avoid using birth control methods that can lead to bacterial growth, such as diaphragms or spermicide-treated condoms.
Don’t delay using the toilet for too long if you have the urge to urinate.
Drink plenty of fluids to keep yourself hydrated. Avoid coffee, alcohol, soft drinks with caffeine and citrus juices — as well as spicy foods — until your infection clears. These items can irritate the bladder and aggravate a frequent or urgent need to urinate.
Soak in a bathtub of warm water (sitz bath) for 15 to 20 minutes to help relieve pain or discomfort.
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking lots of fluids is especially important if you're getting chemotherapy or radiation therapy, particularly on treatment days.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement. This prevents bacteria in the anal region from spreading to the vagina and urethra.
Take showers rather than tub baths. If you're susceptible to infections, showering rather than bathing may help prevent them.
Gently wash the skin around the vagina and anus. Do this daily, but don't use harsh soaps or wash too vigorously. The delicate skin around these areas can become irritated.
Empty your bladder as soon as possible after intercourse. Drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid using deodorant sprays or feminine products in the genital area. These products can irritate the urethra and bladder.
If you can, swap canned fruits and vegetables for their fresh or frozen counterparts. The potassium in canned goods leaches into the water or juice in the can. If you use this juice in your meal or drink it, it can cause a spike in your potassium levels.
If you have CKD, you should have your potassium checked once a month by your doctor. They’ll do this with a simple blood test. The blood test will determine your monthly level of potassium millimoles per liter of blood (mmol/L).
If you’re at an Italian restaurant, skip the sausage and pepperoni. Instead, stick to a simple salad and pasta with non-tomato-based sauce.
If you’re eating Indian food, go for the curry dishes or Tandoori chicken. Be sure to avoid lentils.
Choose dishes with steamed, instead of fried, rice. Don’t add soy sauce, fish sauce, or anything containing MSG into your meal.
You should decrease the fat, salt, protein, and potassium in your diet. Reducing salt and fluid intake can help control blood pressure and prevent fluid overload. Be sure to still get adequate calories to maintain your weight. If you have diabetes, restrict your carbohydrate intake.
Be sure you get adequate exercise. Quitting smoking if you smoke can also help.
Do the DASH. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. It’s a diet rich in fruits, veggies, low-fat dairy products, whole grains, fish, poultry, beans, seeds, and nuts. It’s low in salt and sodium, sugars and sweets, fats, and red meats.
Cut the Sodium. This mineral is found naturally in many foods. It’s most common in table salt.
Avoid table salt and high-sodium seasonings (soy sauce, sea salt, garlic salt, etc.)
Cook at home -- most fast foods are high in sodium
Try new spices and herbs in place of salt
Read the labels when shopping and choose foods that are low-sodium
Rinse canned foods (veggies, beans, meats, and fish) with water before serving
Limit Phosphorous and Calcium
Choose foods with low levels of phosphorous (look for “PHOS” on the label)
Eat more fresh fruits and veggies
Choose corn and rice cereals
Drink light-colored sodas
Cut back on meat, poultry, and fish
Limit dairy foods
Choose whole fruits instead of dried fruits -- the latter contains more sugar -- and fruit juices.
Reduce alcohol consumption because it interferes with the liver’s processing of fatty acids and increases triglycerides.
Eat lots of low-carbohydrate vegetables like broccoli, spinach, leafy greens, onions and peppers and choose whole grain products.
Add Healthy Fats to your Diet to Manage Dyslipidemia. There are many fats which are actually good for you and can aid you reduce cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Good sources of healthy fats which can be included in your diet include fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, olive oils, canola oils seeds, nuts, avocados etc.
Add Low Carbohydrate Vegetables and Whole Fruits. You must take low carbohydrate vegetables like spinach, broccoli, leafy greens, peppers, onions etc in your diet to manage dyslipidemia. Apart from this, it is essential to add whole fruits instead of dried fruits. It is also essential to watch your intake of refined carbohydrates like white bread and sugary foods and beverages.
Add Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Your Diet.
Reduce Dietary Cholesterol Intake.
Reduce Saturated Fat Intake. Substitute low saturated fat foods like lean meats, low-fat dairy products etc for high- saturated-fat foods like butter, ice cream, cheese, full-fat dairy products, sausage, bacon, fatty meats, donuts etc.
Choose healthier fats. Saturated fat and trans fat raise your total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. The most common sources of saturated fat in the diet are red meat, processed meats and dairy products that are not fat-free. Monounsaturated fat — found in olive and canola oils — is a healthier option. Avocados, almonds, pecans and walnuts are other sources of healthy fat.
Avoid trans fats. Trans fats, which are often found in margarines and commercially baked cookies, crackers and snack cakes, are particularly bad for your cholesterol levels. Not only do trans fats increase your total LDL ("bad") cholesterol, but they also lower your HDL ("good") cholesterol. Foods listing "partially hydrogenated oils" in the ingredients contain trans fats.
Limit your dietary cholesterol. The most concentrated sources of cholesterol include organ meats, egg yolks and whole milk products. Use lean cuts of meat and skim milk instead. Limit the intake of eggs to no more than 7 a week.
Select whole grains. Various nutrients found in whole grains promote heart health. Choose whole-grain breads, whole-wheat pasta, whole-wheat flour and brown rice. Oatmeal and oat bran are other good choices.
Eat heart-healthy fish. Some types of fish — such as cod, tuna and halibut — have less total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol than do meat and poultry. Salmon, mackerel and herring are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which help promote heart health.
Drink alcohol only in moderation. Moderate use of alcohol may increase your levels of HDL cholesterol — but the benefits aren't strong enough to recommend alcohol for anyone who doesn't drink already. If you choose to drink, do so in moderation. This means no more than one drink a day for women and one to two drinks a day for men.
Lose extra pounds. Excess weight contributes to high cholesterol. Losing even 5 to 10 pounds can help lower total cholesterol levels. Start by taking an honest look at your eating habits and daily routine. Consider your challenges to weight loss — and ways to overcome them. Set long-term, sustainable goals.
Exercise regularly. Regular exercise can help improve your cholesterol levels. With your doctor's OK, work up to 30 to 60 minutes of exercise a day. Take a brisk daily walk. Ride your bike. Swim laps. To maintain your motivation, keep it fun. Find an exercise buddy or join an exercise group. And you don't need to get all 30 to 60 minutes in one exercise session. If you can squeeze in three to six 10-minute intervals of exercise, you'll still get some benefits. If you are not doing any exercise at all right now, try even 15 minutes of exercise a day several days of the week. Some exercise is much better than no exercise.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, stop. Cigarette smoking increases your risk of heart disease because it damages your blood vessels and speeds up the accumulation of plaque within arteries.
Choose low-impact activities that you enjoy, such as walking, cycling or water exercises. And remember that duration is more important than intensity.
Reduce intake of saturated fats and trans fats.
Limit alcoholic drinks to one or two per day. One drink per day for women; two per day for men.
Follow the Portfolio Diet. Mainly vegetarian diet with soy and other vegetable proteins, plant sterols, almonds, and soluble fiber
Engage in aerobic exercise. At least 120 minutes per week
Avoid Sugar and refined grain products
Avoid Hydrogenated fats — Vegetable oils are pro-inflammatory and may increase cholesterol.
Avoid Trans fats — These increase LDL cholesterol, inflammation and risk of cardiovascular disease.
Avoid Conventional dairy products (non-organic, homogenized and pasteurized)
Avoid Factory-farmed animal products
Add a variety of spices to your daily diet, such as basil, rosemary and turmeric, which all contain antioxidants that are cardioprotective and help lower cholesterol naturally.
avoid carbonation or caffeine
limit liquids before bed
avoid spicy or acidic foods, which irritate the urinary tract
eat plenty of fiber to avoid constipation
Learn something new, such as a second language or a musical instrument.
Play board games with your kids or grandkids. Or get your friends together for a weekly game of cards. Mix it up by trying new games. The extra bonus of activities like these? Social connections also help your brain.
Play online memory games or video games.
Keep a Routine
Limit the Amount of Sound and Movement: People with Alzheimer's can be easily overwhelmed by crowds and noise
Try not to shop in crowds.
Gather in small groups
Keep the TV off during other activities. 
You can reduce the chance that you will get a migraine by avoiding the foods and drinks that may trigger them. Pay attention to what you’ve eaten; you may notice a pattern. Keeping a food diary can help you identify something that upsets your body and leads to an episode.
Make sure you’re getting enough sleep and rest.
Drink plenty of water.
Take up stress-reducing activities like meditation and gardening.
When the weather is hot and sticky, keep yourself hydrated. Exercise in a cool, temperature-controlled environment if possible, such as an air-conditioned gym, or wait until the worst of the heat and humidity has passed. Consider switching your workout time to the early morning when it’s generally cooler, especially during hot summer months.
If you’ve recently moved to or are visiting a location at high altitude, wait two days before beginning your exercise regimen. This will allow your body to get used to the lower oxygen levels.
If you’ve recently moved to or are visiting a location at high altitude, drinking more fluids and staying away from alcohol can also help.
Spend 15 minutes warming up before engaging in intense activity and five minutes cooling down afterward.
Dehydration may be a trigger for migraines. Carry a water bottle with you while you exercise, and sip often.
Stick to regular eating and sleeping times
Reduce stress and anxiety
Cut back on caffeinated and alcoholic beverages
Take  OTC nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen or naproxen
Take anti-inflammatory drugs, such as indomethacin, or blood pressure medication, such as propranolol, which have been shown to help prevent headaches
Engage in professional medical detoxification or detox programs to treat alcoholism
follow a low-salt diet
take diuretics to increase the removal of water and salt from your body through urination
limit how much fluid you drink to ease pressure on your heart from fluid retention
If you’re over 65 and/or have numerous health conditions, you’re more at risk for delirium.
Learn how to say no: Feeling overwhelmed can worsen anxiety and depression symptoms. Setting boundaries in your professional and personal life can help you feel better.
Take care of yourself: You can also improve symptoms of depression by taking care of yourself. This includes getting plenty of sleep, eating a healthy diet, avoiding negative people, and participating in enjoyable activities.
Try cutting out extra responsibilities and stressors in your life. Give yourself room to breathe when you’re feeling down.
Add more structure to your day. You can set reminders on your phone when you have events or other can’t-miss responsibilities.
Consider journaling. This can be a healthy outlet for you to openly and honestly divulge feelings of sadness, anger, or fear.
Seek out groups that help with mental health. Your employer or church may have an assistance program that can help. You can also check out the National Alliance on Mental Illness and the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance.
Try not to isolate yourself. Although this can be difficult when you’re feeling low, having a support network around you has a number of benefits.
If you’re interested in this potential therapy and live in an area where medicinal marijuana is legal, consider discussing this with your doctor. They can work with you to determine whether this is an option for you.
Join a sports team or studio (like yoga or kickboxing); where you’ll be part of a community in addition to being active.
Take the stairs instead of the elevator.
Make it a habit: This is the best way to maintain the fitness level that is most effective in preventing depression.
Make sure that you’re regularly connecting with friends and family, even when your lives are busy. Attending social events when you can and finding new hobbies that could help you meet new people can all help you build new relationships too.
Learn to be decisive more quickly.
Reduce the decisions you’ll have to make during the work week: Plan out your outfits, and have your meals prepped and ready to go.
Avoid overcommitting to things.
Learn to let things go that you can’t control.
Cut people out of your life who take advantage of you.
Eat balanced meals with lean protein, and lots of fruits and vegetables.
Reduce high-sugar and high-fat foods.
Eliminate processed foods from your diet as much as possible.
Incorporate more omega-3s into your diet, with foods like salmon or nuts.
If you’re exercising regularly, getting enough sleep, and eating well, maintaining a healthy weight should fall into place.
Consult your doctor if your condition or symptoms get worse.
Follow your treatment plan carefully.
Take your medications and make lifestyle changes as recommended.
Read prescription medication side effects carefully
A number of different prescription medications can cause depression as a side effect. Read prescription labels carefully before taking them. You can talk to your doctor and see if other medications or treatments can resolve your condition without depression as a side effect.
Limit alcohol intake, and eliminate any drug use as safely as possible.
If you are experiencing anxiety, it’s important to reduce stress in your life. Find ways to relax. Exercise is a great way to relieve stress.
Take walks regularly
Join an exercise class or gym
Practice yoga
take breaks from your routine to manage stress
make time for a hobby you enjoy to manage stress
eat a healthy diet to manage stress
keep a journal to manage stress
avoid unhealthy substances to manage stress
In addition to exercise, you might want to take breaks from your routine or plan a vacation. If you enjoy a particular hobby, make time for it. Do things that make you feel better and more relaxed.
Don’t stress over food choices, but try to eat a wide variety of fresh, healthy foods. Include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains whenever possible.
Avoid greasy, sugary, high-fat, processed foods. Remember that what feeds your body also feeds your brain.
If you are addicted and need help to quit, talk to your doctor or find a support group.
Remember that you can practice healthy habits at home to reduce fatigue-related symptoms if you experience lethargy. Examples include: drinking plenty of fluids, eating a healthy diet, getting plenty of sleep, reducing stress levels
Start the Day With Gentle Activity. Slow, gentle activity in the morning can help wake up tired muscles and stiff joints. Just take it easy on your spine. Deep, relaxed breathing when you wake up may also be helpful. But certain moves aren't recommended if you have back pain -- ask your health care provider what's best for you.
Sit Comfortably. If your job requires you to sit for long periods, make sure your chair has a straight back, an adjustable seat, and armrests. Some people prefer more lumbar support than others. If you need extra support, place a rolled towel behind the lower part of your back. Resting your feet on a low stool can also help ease back pain when sitting.
Work Ergonomically. If you spend most of your day at a computer, your work station can affect your back’s health. You shouldn’t have to lean forward to reach your keyboard or see your monitor. Instead, move them closer, so you can keep your elbows at your side as you work. You should also adjust your computer screen so it is just at or below eye level.
Practice Good Phone Posture. Your shoulder may make a great phone rest when you need to multitask in a pinch. But this posture is a common cause of neck pain and can also contribute to poor alignment in the back. When you need to make a hands-free call, use a shoulder support, headset, or the speaker function on your phone instead.
Taking the stairs is often suggested as a way to fit more exercise into your day. But walking up stairs may not be the best exercise for some people with low back pain, especially older adults and those with knee problems. So before you head for the stairwell, ask your doctor whether taking the stairs is the right option for you.
Avoid alcohol.
See your doctor if your headaches are frequent or last more than a few days. Get immediate medical help if your headache is sudden and severe, occurs after a head injury, or is the worst you have ever had. It’s also important to get urgent care if your headache is accompanied by fever, stiff neck, seizures, numbness, double vision, dizziness, severe nausea, shortness of breath, or confusion.
When choosing dairy products, choose low-fat options.
Limit quick-digesting foods that may cause a spike in your blood sugar levels.
Work in the 3 types of exercises: aerobic (aka cardio), strengthening, and flexibility. Exercises to try: Walking, light weight lifting, and yoga. Talk to your doctor before trying a new exercise program.
Stay away from refined foods, shellfish, wheat, diary products and alcohol
Urinate frequently. If you feel the urge to urinate, don't delay using the toilet.
Stay away from packaged foods, if possible -- these tend to be high in sodium
Reduce Your Potassium Intake. Potassium is found in a lot of fruits and veggies, like bananas, potatoes, avocados, and melons. These foods can affect potassium levels in your blood. Your doctor will let you know if you need to limit this mineral in your diet. If so, he may recommend you try low-potassium foods, like: Apples and apple juice, Cranberries and cranberry juice, Strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, Plums, Pineapples, Cabbage, Boiled cauliflower.
Increase Intake of Healthy Fats. Good sources of healthy fats include fatty fish like salmon and tuna, nuts, seeds, olive oil, canola oil and avocados.
Trim Excess of Calories.
Trim Excess Alcohol Intake:
Stock up on fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables are rich in dietary fiber, which can help lower cholesterol. Snack on seasonal fruits. Experiment with vegetable-based casseroles, soups and stir-fries.
Once your cardiovascular fitness begins to improve, add low-resistance, high-repetition strength training, such as circuit training.
Increase intake of poly-and monounsaturated fats
Increase intake of soluble fiber
Isocalorically increase consumption of tree nuts
Increase intake of soy protein
Increase intake of plant stanols and sterols.
Increase intake of omega-3 fatty acids from marine sources.
Follow a Mediterranean diet. Olive oil is main dietary fat; moderate wine consumption; limited amounts of red meat, dairy products, eggs, and poultry; increased amounts of vegetables, whole grains, fish, and tree nuts
Too much caffeine can increase cholesterol levels. Limit coffee or tea to no more than one to two cups per day.
Avoid Too much alcohol.
exercise regularly
Work on crossword, number, or other kinds of puzzles.
Read, write, or sign up for local adult education classes.
In the evening, Turn on more lights. She may be more comfortable in well-lit rooms.
Exercise regularly.
Talk to your doctor if you think you drink heavily. They can help you quit drinking in a safe environment and prevent serious symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.
Alternative therapies: Ask your doctor about acupuncture or meditation. Some herbal supplements are also used to treat depression, such as St. John’s Wort, SAMe, and fish oil.
Talk with your doctor before taking a supplement or combining a supplement with prescription medication. Doing this will help prevent complications and side effects.
Exercise: Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity three to five days a week. Exercise can increase your body's production of endorphins, which are hormones that improve your mood.
Avoid alcohol and drugs: Drinking or using drugs may make you feel better for a little bit. But in the long run, these substances can worsen depression and anxiety symptoms.
Discover new and fun ways to relieve stress and bad emotions. It could be as simple as taking a daily walk, striking some yoga poses, or trying meditation.
Practice mindfulness or meditation.
Stay away from anyone who makes you feel worse about yourself.
Know the signs. If someone spreads rumors or talks badly about someone as soon as they leave the room, they’re likely to do the same for you.
Order an appetizer instead of a drink at happy hour.
Plan and invite friends to events where alcohol isn’t central.
Order cranberry juice; you don’t have to tell anyone it doesn’t have vodka in it.
To stop smoking, Focus on your reason for quitting and remind yourself of this every time you’re tempted.
To stop smoking; Focus on your reason for quitting and remind yourself of this every time you’re tempted.
To stop smoking, Tell your friends and ask them to help hold you accountable.
To stop smoking, Quit at the same time as a friend.
exercise regularly to manage stress
Avoid Processed Foods
Eat fresh food
Work with a mental health professional to plan what to do when you think a mood swing might happen. Ask for more help from family and friends. Have them check in more often so you get extra support.
Take medications as directed. If you are taking any medications for ADHD or any other condition, take them exactly as prescribed. Taking two doses at once to catch up on missed doses can be bad for you and others. If you notice side effects or other problems, talk to your doctor as soon as possible.
Organize. Make lists of daily tasks (be reasonable!) and work to complete them. Use a daily planner, leave notes for yourself, and set your alarm clock when you need to remember an appointment or other activity.
Breathe slowly. If you have a tendency to do things you later regret, such as interrupt others or get angry at others, manage the impulse by pausing. Count to 10 while you breathe slowly instead of acting out. Usually the impulse will pass as quickly as it appeared.
Cut down on distractions. If you find yourself being distracted by loud music or the television, turn it off or use earplugs. Move yourself to a quieter location, or ask others to help make things less distracting.
Burn off extra energy. You may need a way to get rid of some energy if you’re hyperactive or feel restless. Exercise, a hobby, or another pastime can be good choices.
Ask for help. We all need help from time to time, and it's important to not be afraid to ask for it. If you have disruptive thoughts or behaviors, ask a counselor if they have any ideas you can try that could help you control them.
Immediate rewards: Try using a point system or other means of immediate rewards for good behavior or work.
Timeouts: Use a timeout when your child becomes too unruly or out of control. For some children, being pulled out of a stressful or overstimulating situation can help them learn how to react more appropriately the next time a similar situation comes up.
Togetherness: Find time together every week to share a pleasurable or relaxing activity. During this time together, you can look for opportunities to point out what your child does well and praise their strengths and abilities.
Striving for success: Structure situations in a way that allows your child to find success. For instance, you might allow them to have only one or two playmates at a time so they don’t get overstimulated.
Stress management: Use methods such as meditation, relaxation techniques, and exercise to help manage stress.
Build a schedule: Set the same routine every day. Try to make sure that waking up, bedtime, homework, and even playtime are done at consistent times. Post the schedule in a visible place. If a change must be made, make it as far in advance as possible.
Organize everyday items: Make sure that clothing, backpacks, school supplies, and play items all have a designated, clearly marked space.
Use homework and notebook organizers: Stress the importance of writing down assignments and bringing home anything needed to complete homework.
Ask about using a computer in class: For some children with ADHD, handwriting is another obstacle to success. If necessary, see if their teacher will allow for computer use in the classroom.
Use positive reinforcement: Children with ADHD often receive criticism from authority figures. Then they start to expect it. If they get only negative feedback without ever hearing positive things about themselves, they'll start to think of themselves as bad.
To boost your child's self-esteem and reinforce appropriate behavior, use positive reinforcement. If your child follows the rules and behaves well, give small rewards and praise. This lets them know what behavior you prefer, while letting them know that they can be good.
Don’t Use illicit drugs as they can cause another episode.
Don't Drink too much alcohol - remember the safe alcohol drinking limits of 21 units per week for a man and 14 units per week for a woman.
Don’t  Get stressed.
Don’t Smoke cigarettes - 30 to 40 people out of a 100 with mental health problems smoke. They may help you to relax and focus your thoughts in the short-term but interferes with your medication and is very harmful to your body in the long-term.
This medication may rarely make your blood sugar level rise, which can cause or worsen diabetes. Rarely, very serious conditions such as diabetic coma may occur. Tell your doctor right away if you develop symptoms of high blood sugar, such as increased thirst and urination. If you already have diabetes, be sure to check your blood sugars regularly.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy or cause blurred vision. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
This medication may make you sweat less, making you more likely to get heat stroke. Avoid doing things that may cause you to overheat, such as hard work or exercise in hot weather, or using hot tubs.
If you overheat, quickly look for a place to cool down and rest.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk. Breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
WARNING:  Taking too much acetaminophen may cause serious (possibly fatal) liver disease. Adults should not take more than 4000 milligrams (4 grams) of acetaminophen a day. People with liver problems and children should take less acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how much acetaminophen is safe to take.
Do not take this medication for fever for more than 3 days unless directed by your doctor.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant before using this medication.
Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you are already taking another anti-diabetic drug (such as metformin or a sulfonylurea), follow your doctor's directions carefully for stopping/continuing the old drug and starting this medication.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase the risk of developing low blood sugar.
This medication should be used only when clearly needed during pregnancy. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor. Your doctor may substitute insulin for this drug during your pregnancy.
It is not known whether this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Consult your doctor to see if you need to take calcium/vitamin D supplements and discuss lifestyle changes that might benefit you.
Do not take a dose of this drug unless you have time for a full night's sleep of at least 7 to 8 hours. If you have to wake up before that, you may have some memory loss and may have trouble safely doing any activity that requires alertness, such as driving or operating machinery.
Do not take more than 12. 5 milligrams a day.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activities that require clear thinking after you take this medication and the next day. You may feel alert, but this medication may continue to affect your thinking, making such activities unsafe.
Do not drink alcoholic beverages.
A small amount of this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Consult your doctor before treating a child younger than 12 years.
Take this medication by mouth.
Drink a full glass of water (8 ounces/240 milliliters) with it unless your doctor tells you otherwise.
Do not lie down for at least 10 minutes after you have taken this drug.
Do not crush or chew extended-release tablets or capsules. Doing so can release all of the drug at once, increasing the risk of side effects.
Also, do not split extended-release tablets unless they have a score line and your doctor or pharmacist tells you to do so. Swallow the whole or split tablet without crushing or chewing.
If you have any of the following health problems, consult your doctor or pharmacist before using this medication: kidney disease, liver disease, diabetes, stomach problems (such as ulcers, heartburn, stomach pain), aspirin-sensitive asthma (a history of worsening breathing with runny/stuffy nose after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs), growths in the nose (nasal polyps), gout, certain enzyme deficiencies (pyruvate kinase or G6PD deficiency).
Consult your doctor before using this medication if you are or think you may be pregnant.
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking this medication.
Do not use this medication during the last 3 months of pregnancy because of possible harm to the unborn baby or problems during delivery.
Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check all prescription and nonprescription medicine labels carefully since many medications contain pain relievers/fever reducers known as NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, ketorolac, naproxen).
If you are taking low-dose aspirin for prevention of heart attack/stroke, consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details and to discuss other possible treatments (such as acetaminophen) for your pain/fever.
This medication may interfere with certain laboratory tests (including certain urine sugar tests), possibly causing false test results. Make sure laboratory personnel and all your doctors know you are taking this medication.
You may mix the measured dose with a small amount of juice, water, soda, applesauce or pudding. Stir in one dose and mix gently for a few seconds. After preparing one dose, drink or eat the entire mixture right away. Do not prepare a supply for future use.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
This drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Drink plenty of fluids while taking this medication to lower the unlikely risk of kidney stones forming, unless your doctor advises you otherwise.
Tell your doctor right away if you develop: persistent diarrhea, abdominal or stomach pain/cramping, blood/mucus in your stool.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of these symptoms because these products may make them worse.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths or sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
If you have diabetes, this product may affect your blood sugar levels.
While there have been no reports of harm to healthy infants, this drug may have undesirable effects on infants who are ill or premature or have certain disorders (jaundice, high blood levels of bilirubin, G6PD deficiency). Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended for infants with these conditions. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you use hormonal birth control, ask your doctor or pharmacist for more details.
This product may interfere with certain laboratory tests, possibly causing false test results. Make sure laboratory personnel and all your doctors know you use this product.
Drink plenty of fluids while using this medication unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
If you are using this medication at home, learn all preparation and usage instructions from your health care professional.
Avoid mixing ceftriaxone with IV fluids that have calcium in them (such as Ringer's solution, Hartmann's solution, parenteral nutrition-TPN/PPN).
Use this drug at evenly spaced intervals.
This medication may rarely cause a severe intestinal condition (Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea) due to a type of resistant bacteria. This condition may occur during treatment or weeks to months after treatment has stopped. Tell your doctor right away if you develop: diarrhea that doesn't stop, abdominal or stomach pain/cramping, blood/mucus in your stool.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of these symptoms because these products may make them worse.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.
Take this medication with a full glass of water (8 ounces or 240 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Do not lie down for 10 minutes after taking this medication.
Drink plenty of fluids as directed by your doctor to prevent dehydration and tell your doctor right away if you have a change in the amount of urine.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
Take this medication with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing escitalopram while using citalopram.
Take this medication with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing escitalopram while using citalopram.
Take this medication by mouth, usually at bedtime with a full glass (8 ounces or 240 milliliters) of water or juice, or as directed by your doctor.
If you have any of the following health problems, consult your doctor or pharmacist before using this medication: severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, sudden change in bowel habits over the previous 2 weeks.
It is not known if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Avoid sudden large increases or decreases in your intake of foods high in vitamin K (such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, kale, spinach, and other green leafy vegetables, liver, green tea, certain vitamin supplements).
If you are trying to lose weight, check with your doctor before you try to go on a diet.
Limit alcoholic beverages. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how much alcohol you may safely drink.
If you fall or injure yourself, especially if you hit your head, call your doctor right away.
Discuss with your doctor the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication and for 1 month after stopping the medication.
If you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant, tell your doctor right away.
If you are planning pregnancy, discuss a plan for managing your condition with your doctor before you become pregnant.
Very small amounts of this medication may pass into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
WARNING:  This drug can cause serious (possibly fatal) harm to an unborn baby if used during pregnancy. Therefore, it is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication. Consult your doctor for more details and to discuss the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, contact your doctor right away.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily with or without food.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen) because they may contain ingredients that could increase your blood pressure or worsen your heart failure.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Avoid contact with people who have infections that may spread to others (such as chickenpox, measles, flu).
Do not have immunizations/vaccinations without the consent of your doctor.
Avoid contact with people who have recently received live vaccines (such as flu vaccine inhaled through the nose).
Take this medication by mouth, usually once or twice daily after a meal or snack or as directed by your doctor.
If you are taking 2 doses each day, it may help to take 1 of the doses at bedtime.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
If you are also taking cholestyramine, colestipol, or psyllium, wait at least 2 hours after taking your digoxin dose before taking any of these products.
If you are taking antacids, kaolin-pectin, milk of magnesia, metoclopramide, sulfasalazine, or aminosalicylic acid, take them as far apart from your digoxin dose as possible.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Certain drugs such as "water pills" (diuretics) may affect the normal balance of these minerals. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking a "water pill" or if you have a history of mineral imbalance.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist whether you should take a nutritional supplement or follow a special diet.
Some products have ingredients that could worsen your heart failure. Tell your pharmacist what products you are using, and ask how to use them safely (especially cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen/naproxen).
It is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication. Consult your doctor for more details and to discuss the use of reliable forms of birth control while taking this medication.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, contact your doctor right away.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Some products have ingredients that could raise your blood pressure or worsen your heart failure. Tell your pharmacist what products you are using, and ask how to use them safely (especially cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen/naproxen).
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily with food, either in the morning or evening.
Drink a glass of water after each dose.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily, at least 1 hour before a meal.
Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of the following symptoms because these products may make them worse.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. However, similar drugs pass into breast milk. The effects on a nursing infant are unknown. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use any medications containing omeprazole while using esomeprazole.
If you are treating a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your doctor about non-drug treatments and/or using other medications to treat your pain.
Do not lie down for at least 10 minutes after taking this drug.
Drink plenty of fluids as directed by your doctor to prevent dehydration and tell your doctor right away if you have a change in the amount of urine.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths or sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
This medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check all prescription and nonprescription medicine labels carefully since many medications contain pain relievers/fever reducers (aspirin, NSAIDs such as celecoxib, ibuprofen, or ketorolac). These drugs are similar to piroxicam and may increase your risk of side effects if taken together.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or if you plan to become pregnant.
Select a dry, non-hairy area on a flat part of your body, such as the chest, sides, back, or upper arms.
If there is hair on the skin, use scissors to clip the hair as close as possible to the skin. Do not shave hair since this might cause skin irritation. If needed, use water to clean the area. Do not use soap, oils, lotions, or alcohol on the application site. Dry the skin well before applying the patch.
Do not let children see you apply a patch, and do not apply the patch where children can see it. Children have found patches that have fallen off or removed patches on sleeping adults and put them in their mouths or on their bodies with fatal results.
If the patch comes off and accidentally sticks to the skin of another person, immediately remove the patch, wash the area with water, and get medical help for them right away. Do not use soap, alcohol, or other products to wash the area.
Tell your doctor right away if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: mental/mood changes (such as agitation, confusion, hallucinations), severe stomach/abdominal pain, difficulty urinating, slow/fast/pounding heartbeat, signs of your adrenal glands not working well (such as loss of appetite, unusual tiredness, weight loss).
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
Avoid activities that might cause your body temperature to rise. (such as doing strenuous work/exercise in hot weather).
If you are going to have an MRI test, tell testing personnel that you are using this patch. Some patches may contain metals that can cause serious burns during an MRI.
Ask your doctor whether you will need to remove your patch before the test and apply a new patch afterward, and how to do so properly.
This drug passes into breast milk and may rarely have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Tell the doctor right away if your baby develops unusual sleepiness, difficulty feeding, or trouble breathing.
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before treatment with this medication.
Do not drink alcohol while using this medication and for at least 24 hours after treatment. Drinking alcohol while using this medication may cause stomach cramps, flushing, nausea, vomiting, and headache.
Do not have vaginal sex or use tampons or douches while using this medication.
The medication in this product may pass into breast milk in small amounts. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use this medication if you have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks.
Do not take products containing alcohol or propylene glycol while using this medication and for at least 24 hours after treatment.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily, 30 minutes after the same meal each day.
Swallow this medication whole.
Do not crush, chew, or open the capsules.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
If you are also taking a drug to treat erectile dysfunction-ED or pulmonary hypertension (such as sildenafil, tadalafil), your blood pressure may get too low which can lead to dizziness or fainting.
If you have diabetes, fluoxetine may affect your blood sugar levels. Monitor your blood sugar regularly and share the results with your doctor.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy with your doctor.
This drug may pass into breast milk and could have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Taking MAO inhibitors with his medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction. Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication. Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for 2 weeks before and at least 5 weeks after treatment with this medication.
Follow the diet plan recommended by your doctor or dietician.
Consult your doctor or dietician for a diet plan rich in folate/folic acid.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once a day with the evening meal.
Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Gabapentin passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine, morphine).
Do not use this medication with other medications that contain gabapentin (including gabapentin enacarbil).
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast or the first main meal of the day, as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
If you are taking colesevelam, take glimepiride at least 4 hours before taking colesevelam.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar.
Pregnancy may cause or worsen diabetes. Discuss a plan with your doctor for managing your blood sugar while pregnant.
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
If you are already taking another anti-diabetic drug (such as chlorpropamide), follow your doctor's directions carefully for stopping the old drug and starting glipizide.
Check with your doctor or pharmacist to find out what you should do if you miss a meal.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar. Alcohol can rarely interact with glipizide and cause a serious reaction (disulfiram-like reaction) with symptoms such as facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or stomach pain. Consult your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcohol.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. However, similar drugs pass into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth with breakfast as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while taking this medication because it can increase your risk of developing low blood sugar. Alcohol can rarely interact with glipizide and cause a serious reaction (disulfiram-like reaction) with symptoms such as facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or stomach pain. Consult your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcohol.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths, and sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Pregnancy may cause or worsen diabetes. Discuss a plan with your doctor for managing your blood sugar while pregnant. Your doctor may change your diabetes treatment during your pregnancy (such as diet and medications including insulin).
If you are injecting heparin into a vein, flush the catheter/line with normal saline before and after infusing drugs that interact with heparin such as doxorubicin, droperidol, ciprofloxacin, and mitoxantrone.
Daily use of alcohol while using this medicine will increase your risk for stomach bleeding. Limit alcoholic beverages. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how much alcohol you may safely drink.
This medication does not pass into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor if you smoke or if you have recently stopped smoking.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
If you have diabetes, hydrochlorothiazide may affect your blood sugar levels. Check your blood sugar levels regularly as directed by your doctor.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
This drug passes into breast milk, but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily when you wake up. Swallow this medication whole with a half glass of water (4 ounces/120 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Do not use medications containing isosorbide dinitrate while using isosorbide mononitrate.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually 2 or 3 times daily.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately talk to your doctor about the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as allergy or cough-and-cold products) because they may contain ingredients that cause drowsiness.
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Current information shows that this drug may be used during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant because your dose may need to be adjusted.
Levothyroxine passes into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
You may experience blurred vision, dizziness, or drowsiness due to extremely low or high blood sugar levels. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcohol while using this medication because it can increase the risk of developing low blood sugar.
This medication passes into breast milk, but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding. Your insulin needs may change while breast-feeding.
This medication may make you more sensitive to the sun. Avoid prolonged sun exposure, tanning booths, and sunlamps. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing when outdoors.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy or cause blurred vision. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness or clear vision until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
This drug passes into breast milk and may affect milk production. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen) because they may contain ingredients that could increase your blood pressure or swelling (edema).
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Current information shows that this drug may be used during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant because your dose may need to be adjusted.
Levothyroxine passes into breast milk but is unlikely to harm a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning or evening.
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Avoid alcoholic beverages.
If you are planning pregnancy, become pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, immediately discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medication during pregnancy.
This medication passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).
Do not use medications containing citalopram while using escitalopram.
Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.
Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice while using this medication unless your doctor instructs you otherwise. Grapefruit can increase the amount of this medication in your bloodstream.
If you also take certain other drugs to lower your cholesterol (bile acid-binding resins such as cholestyramine or colestipol), take atorvastatin at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after taking these medications. These products can react with atorvastatin, preventing its full absorption.
Remember to take it at the same time each day.
Limit alcoholic beverages. Daily use of alcohol may increase your risk for liver problems, especially when combined with atorvastatin.
Do not take any red yeast rice products while you are taking atorvastatin because some red yeast rice products may also contain a statin called lovastatin. Taking atorvastatin and red yeast rice products together can increase your risk of serious muscle and liver problems.
This drug may make you dizzy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Limit alcoholic beverages.
Be sure to drink enough fluids to prevent dehydration unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually 3-4 times daily. Take lithium with or immediately after meals to lessen stomach upset.
Drink 8 to 12 glasses (8 ounces or 240 milliliters each) of water or other fluid each day, and eat a healthy diet with normal amounts of salt (sodium) as directed by your doctor or dietician while taking this medication. Large changes in the amount of salt in your diet may change your lithium blood levels. Do not change the amount of salt in your diet unless your doctor tells you to do so.
To reduce the risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.
When the weather is hot, drink a lot of fluids and dress lightly.
Avoid alcohol.
For adults, do not take this product for pain for more than 10 days (5 days in children) unless directed by your doctor.
Carefully follow the medication treatment plan, meal plan, and exercise program your doctor has recommended.
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other salicylates (such as choline salicylate); or to other pain relievers or fever reducers (NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen); or if you have any other allergies.
Before using this medicine, consult your doctor or pharmacist if you have: bleeding/blood-clotting disorders (such as hemophilia, vitamin K deficiency, low platelet count).
Before using this product, consult your doctor if you have recently received certain live vaccines (such as varicella vaccine, live flu vaccine).
To help you remember, use it at the same time(s) each day.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: kidney disease, liver disease, glaucoma, lung/breathing problems (such as sleep apnea), mental/mood disorders (such as depression, psychosis), drug/alcohol abuse.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: kidney disease, liver disease, certain blood disorders (such as porphyria, anemia due to folate vitamin deficiency), history of blood disorders caused by trimethoprim or sulfa medications, vitamin deficiency (folate or folic acid), severe allergies, asthma, decreased bone marrow function (bone marrow suppression), a certain metabolic disorder (G6PD deficiency), underactive thyroid, mineral imbalances (such as high level of potassium or low level of sodium in the blood).
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: asthma (including a history of worsening breathing after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs), liver disease, stomach/intestine/esophagus problems (such as bleeding, ulcers, recurring heartburn), heart disease (such as angina, heart attack), high blood pressure, stroke, blood disorders (such as anemia, bleeding/clotting problems), growths in the nose (nasal polyps).
To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
Before using citalopram, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, recent heart attack, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).
To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
