Easter Eggs - Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page contains information on the Easter Eggs and Secrets found in Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain. It's one part of IGN's guide showing you the strategies, Collectibles, and locations you need to know to beat every MGS 5 mission. Check our more of our Metal Gear 5 Walkthrough for more Cheats, Easter Eggs, and Tips and Tricks. 
 


Hideo Kojima is in the game as a prisoner for rescue in Side Ops #112. 
 
 


A radio recording utilized in the horror demo P.T. (Silent Hills) that was originally directed by Hideo Kojima appears as an Easter Egg in Metal Gear Solid 5. 
The radio is located inside a CFA tent in Africa at guard post #17 just up the hill leading towards Ngumba Industrial Zone. 
The news recording details a grisly murder and plays in a radio hidden in a tent just beyond an outpost encampment. This is the same audio recording from the radio in P.T. 

Obtaining Cassette Tape 204863 will give you access to the music present in P.T. 

If you listen carefully in Shago Village, the sound of the swinging chandelier in the foyer of P.T. can be heard in the background. 

If you leave some Skulls alive en route to Code Talker's mansion, a boombox within the mansion will be playing the ending monologue you got upon beating PT and receiving the ending. 
 
 


During the Prologue, the game asks for the player to input their birthdate. Enter a date that is the next calendar day or a couple of days later. 
On the date of the inputted birthdate, start up the game and then return to Mother Base to trigger a special Birthday cutscene with Miller, Ocelot and some MB soldiers. Depending on how far into the game you've progressed, Huey and Code Talker will also appear in the scene. 
If Quiet is at Mother Base, a separate scene will occur with her, where she leaves Snake a special birthday message. 
BIRTH DATE NOTE: If you change the date to your birthday, go into the past and not into the future. Currently the game saves only the newest date. So if today is September 5th of 2015 and your birthday is January 1st and you change the date to January 1st of 2016, when you start to play the game again with the date of September 5th 2015, nothing will save because it is a previous date to the last save. 
 
 


Once the Medical Strut has been constructed, head to the third floor to find a door with a blue light. Go inside and press the button on the white doorway to meet a special character who was thought to be dead. 
Meeting this special character unlocks the "Wandering Mother Base Soldier" Side Ops missions. After completing each mission, give this character the photos obtained from each target to receive additional cassette tapes. 
 
 


If Big Boss spends FIVE in-game days out in the field without returning to the ACC, he'll eventually get so filthy that he starts attracting flies. Returning to Mother Base in this condition triggers a special "welcome back" cutscene featuring Ocelot, some MB soldiers, and a bucket of water. 
 
 


There is an alternate cutscene of Snake's dousing that will occur if Quiet is with you in the ACC. Return to Mother Base in a filthy state and Quiet will give Snake a special shower, much to Ocelot's repulsion. 
 
 


If Snake's bond with Quiet is at 60% or higher, there is a special cutscene that can be triggered when returning to Mother Base. To trigger the scene, Quiet must be with Snake in the chopper and return to Mother Base during rainy conditions. 
When Snake returns to Mother Base, the special scene of Quiet and Snake having some fun in the rain will trigger. 
 
There are three cages in the middle of the Quarantine Platform at Mother Base that Snake can use to house all of the Skulls that he extracts plus the Man on Fire. 

The three types of Skulls that appear are the Mist Skulls (from Mission 1 & 5), the Armor Skulls (from Mission 16 & 29), and the Camouflage Skulls (Mission 28). Two of each Skull will be placed into the cages where they just flail about constantly. As for the Man on Fire, he can be found in the cage behind the Skulls. 
 
There are several unlockable items from Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes that can be used in The Phantom Pain. 
Simply complete all of the Ground Zeroes missions and then transfer the save to your Phantom Pain save to unlock these awesome collectibles. The full list of transfers and unlockables can be found here. 
 

There is a secret way to get Quiet back after Mission 45. Read the full details HERE. 
 

Depending on certain conditions during a mission, Snake can trigger a special cutscene that affects the mission: 
 
 


During the Prologue, you will find a flyer on the bulletin board just outside of Snake's room. The image on the flyer is from the MGS5: Ground Zeroes promo. 
 
Although a smaller reference, when picking up Diamonds, Ocelot has a rare chance to say "That'll fetch a high price." This is a direct nod to the merchant from Resident Evil 4, who has since become well known due to his often repeated lines. To further cement this, Ocelot says the line with a funny voice, clearly trying to mimic the merchant. 
 
In the opening scenes of the game, the nurse in the hospital can be seen rearranging lilies at Snake's beside. This particular type of lily, called "Star of Bethlehem," are seen in the field where Big Boss has his final confrontation with The Boss at the end of Metal Gear Sold 3: Snake Eater. 
 
Located in the courtyard of the Cyprian hospital you are escaping from in the intro is a huge statue of a female figure riding a horse. A closer look reveals that the identity of this figure is almost definitely The Boss from earlier games. 
 

Using binoculars, look at a restroom that is occupied by a soldier with the binoculars to unlock this gross sound file! 
 

After rescuing Miller in Mission 1, press the action button when he asks you to say "the magic words" to respond with some hidden dialogue. 
 
During Mission 12 Hellbound or Side Op 143 you can spot photographs hanging on the AI Pod (or on the ground after the AI Pod flies away). 
One of them shows Strangelove holding a 4-year-old Hal Emmerich, also known as Otacon, Solid Snake's companion during the events of Metal Gear Solid 1, 2 and 4. 
 
During Side Op #111, Ocelot talks about Quiet and her abilities. He then makes a quick mention of a man that had the same abilities as Quiet in the GRU's Cobra Unit. The man in question is The End, an elite sniper that Naked Snake battled in Metal Gear Solid 3. 
 

Stand near a construction sign warning about falling boxes and look up. You will see a real box appear and fall on your head. 
 
 


When Snake finds Ocelot on Mother Base, shooting him in the head with the tranquilizer gun will make him mutter one of four phrases in sequence. 
1. First is, "That won't work on me, I've had drug resistance training." Though he does trail off while trying to say the last word. 
2. Then he will say: "La-li-lu-le-lo" a reference to the code word for the Patriots in Metal Gear Solid 3. 
