100 Percent Completion Checklist - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page lists the requirements needed for 100% Completion in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild's Walkthrough. There exists in the game a completion rate that you can increase by completing certain tasks in the game. 
The only way you can see what your total completion progress is at is by beating the Main Quest Walkthrough. After defeating the final boss you will be allowed to load the last auto-save before the end, and the save file will have a star that denotes you have completed the game on that save file. 
In this save file, you can look at your map on the Sheikah Slate, and in the bottom left corner alongside the time of day and temperature is a new percentage out of 100% that tracks your total completion. However, this completion percentage ONLY applies to what has been discovered on the map. There is no overall completion percentage for other activities in the game - but you'll also be able to track how many Main Quests, Side Quests, and Shrine Quests you have completed out of the total amount in your Adventure Log. 
Interestingly enough, not everything in the game counts toward a total completion rate, as the percentage only applies to what is seen on the Sheikah Slate's Map - this means things like quests and the Hyrule Compendium don't count to the 100% completion as it is not an overall indicator. In fact, there are only four main categories that are tracked on the map: Dungeons cleared (and their location appearing on the map), Korok Seeds (and the icon that appears once you have claimed a seed), Shrine Discoveries, and Location Discoveries. Each of these will count towards approximately .08% (sometimes you may get a 0.9% increase) of your completion rating. Based on what we know, this boils down to the following - 
While these following categories can be tracked, they are not officially tallied into your completion rating located on the map page. We still recommend you take the time to do them all, if not for the rewards some may have, then for the additional bragging rights and feeling of completion! 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Dueling Peaks | Central Hyrule | Lake Hylia | Ridgeland | Gerudo Wasteland
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
