The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap - Nintendo 3DS - IGN

Big Story
August 8, 2016
June 5, 2014

Basics


Items


Walkthrough

(see all)



Pieces of Heart





                                                A downloadable version of the Game Boy classic, provided through Nintendo's Virtual Console service.

Link returns in the adventure The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap! As he searches an unfamiliar land for fragmented relics called Kinstones, Link will have to take a closer look at the ground beneath his feet. Using the power of a mystical hat called The Minish Cap, the Hylian hero will shrink down for a massive quest... on a microscopic scale! The Kinstones have been cracked into fragments and spread across the world, and only by fusing them together can you solve puzzles and unlock secrets. Talk to everyone you meet, or link with friends and fuse Kinstones with them. Link will have his work cut out for him as he fights evil in his own land then shrinks to help the Minish people, a miniature race in dire need of a hero. As you wander a vast overworld, slash your way through hordes of enemies, explore puzzling dungeons and use new items like a suction device that can fire out what it absorbs.                    


Release Date: December 16, 2011                                                        
E for Everyone: Mild Fantasy Violence



Genre:                             
                                 Action                            

Publisher:
                            Nintendo                        
Developer:
                            Flagship (JP)                        



Link returns in the adventure The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap! As he searches an unfamiliar land for fragmented relics called Kinstones, Link will have to take a closer look at the ground beneath his feet. Using the power of a mystical hat called The Minish Cap, the Hylian hero will shrink down for a massive quest... on a microscopic scale! The Kinstones have been cracked into fragments and spread across the world, and only by fusing them together can you solve puzzles and unlock secrets. Talk to everyone you meet, or link with friends and fuse Kinstones with them. Link will have his work cut out for him as he fights evil in his own land then shrinks to help the Minish people, a miniature race in dire need of a hero. As you wander a vast overworld, slash your way through hordes of enemies, explore puzzling dungeons and use new items like a suction device that can fire out what it absorbs.                    
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
