Amazon to Release eSports Brawler by Killer Instinct Devs - IGN

Amazon Game Studios has announced Breakaway, a four on four "mythological sport brawler," from Double Helix, the team behind Killer Instinct.
The game's description says it is "made by streamers, for streamers." Your team builds its composition from legendary warriors, each with their own skills, weapons, and Buildables, structures which will change the way the game plays out.
Breakaway's Morgan La Fey
In an interview with Eurogamer, head of Amazon Game Studios OC Patrick Gilmore said: "The teams that invest heavily in Buildables invariably control the entire arena, so it's part of the deeper meta of the game. You can be very good at combat, you can be very good at team composition, but the team that's very good with Buildables is going to have an edge on you."
The hero roster is comprised of a mix of real, fictional, and mythological people, such as Arthurian enchantress Morgan Le Fay, and famous pirate Anne Bonny. Plus, you'll be fighting across locations such as El Dorado, Atlantis, and the river Styx.
Gilmore told Eurogamer the game is very quick to get to the action, which is helped by being able to see the entire playing field at all times. "That made it really effective for strategy as a team sport," he said. "For a broadcaster streaming the game there would never be an opportunity to miss a key action."
Breakaway's Spartacus
For streamers, you'll be able to customize your broadcast with real-time statistics, plus you'll be able to play with your audience using the Broadcaster Match Builder, and interact with them with integrated polls and loyalty point wagering.
If you're looking to get in on the action, you can put yourself on the Alpha waiting list. Keep an eye out for the game's first trailer, which is coming soon.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
Matt Porter is a freelance writer based in London. Make sure to visit what he thinks is the best website in the world, but is actually just his Twitter page.
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
