Ancient Vessels - Horizon: Zero Dawn Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Ancient Vessels are one of the many forms of Collectibles found in Horizon Zero Dawn. 
Like most things, maps can be purchased from various vendors, that mark their relative location on the map. Below you can see additional detailed info on where to find them. 
Found a bit West of Meridian. 
This cup is tucked behind a small, ruined wall, just a tiny bit to the South-West of the Sawtooth Site icon. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'FARO'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
Found near the bottom-left area of Devil's Thirst. 
There is a river running through here. Looking over the river is a pile of trash that will contain the vessel. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Seems to show the terrain of the Gatelands. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
Found near the first Bandit Camp in the Devil's Thirst area. 
Just north of the camp is a bridge. On the West side of the bridge, just a dozen feet away, is a trash pile containing the cup. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Shows a curious flying machine. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
Found in the Devil's Thirst area. 
Near the Bandit Camp in Devil's Thirst. Follow the road South out of the camp to find the cup among some trash. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'HARTZ WAYFARERS'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
This is found in the Devil's Grief area. 
This is located on the western edge of Devil's Grief. You can find it by simply following the path west, as the trash pile sits right next to the road. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'MIRIAM'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
This is found in the Devil's Grief area. 
Near the center of Devil's Grief, You can find this sitting in a trash pile, next to a path leading westward. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'USRC'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
This is found in the Devil's Grief area. 
This is found in the southern area of Devil's Grief. It's sitting inside the walls of a ruined building. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Shows a threatening red-eyed visage. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
 
This is found in the Shattered Kiln bandit camp. 
There is a path that runs along the North-West of the camp. Next to it there will be some large turbines and a pile of trash. In the trash is the cup. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'STERLING-MALKEET'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." 
Found nearly in the middle of the final area of the game, the desert area North of Meridian. 
This cup is located in the bottom of a quarry, the same one where you saved Olin. 
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Shows stars and the legend 'ODYSSEY'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards. 
This cup is located in the Maker's End region. 
Right by the bonfire near Maker's End, head North just a few steps to find it. 
A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'METALLURGIC INTERNATIONAL'. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards. 
This is found in the final area of the game, right by the area called Dimmed Bones. 
The cup is sitting right next to the path, on the right, as you head into the Dimmed Bones area. 
A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. 'JOMEI WORLD TOUR 2053' is spelled among faded colors. Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards. 
This is found in the Maker's End area, in the top right of the map. 
As you walk towards Maker's End, just before reaching the entrance of the facility, you will see this cup sitting to the right of the path. 
A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. Bears the legend 'ROCKY MOUNTAIN THUNDERHEADS.' Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards. 

Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Collectibles
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
