Between the Panels: The Guardians of the Galaxy Need to Get Bigger - IGN

Now that characters like Thanos and Rocket Raccoon have become household names, Marvel's cosmic-focused comics are more important than ever. The company clearly recognizes that fact. They've placed a lot of muscle behind the Guardians of the Galaxy comics in recent years, ensuring that the team always has at least one ongoing series to its name and plenty of spinoffs and solo series. Just this month alone we're seeing the debut of the twice-monthly All-New Guardians of the Galaxy, the mini-series Guardians of the Galaxy: Mother Entropy, new solo comics for both Rocket Raccoon and Groot and even a comic book adaptation of the new "Mission: Breakout!" ride at Disney World.
At this point, I don't think anyone could argue that Marvel isn't giving this team the attention or creative muscle they deserve. But there is one glaring flaw with Marvel's handling of the franchise lately. No matter where you look - be it comics, movies, animation or video games - Guardians of the Galaxy stories almost always revolve around the same five characters. And as a result, the franchise is beginning to feel a little stale.
All-New Guardians of the Galaxy #1 cover by Aaron Kuder. (Marvel Comics)
At some point it just became accepted that the default Guardians lineup is Star-Lord, Gamora, Drax, Rocket and Groot, despite the fact that that specific roster never existed until the build-up to the first movie. It's the same problem the Avengers faced for several years. There was never an Avengers squad that included just Captain America, Iron Man, Thor, Hulk, Black Widow and Hawkeye until the first Avengers movie. But once that movie hit theaters, suddenly that specific lineup started cropping up everywhere.
Eventually Marvel eased up on their Avengers synergy. Heck, in the current comics most of those characters are either dead, de-powered or working to overthrow the American government. But Marvel has never done the same for the Guardians. The franchise continues to be driven by those same five characters, despite the huge wealth of cosmic heroes open to Marvel. Whatever happened to characters like Adam Warlock, Phyla-Vell, Mantis and Moondragon? What about Cosmo!?!
If anything, this relentlessly narrow focus has only gotten worse this year. At least writer Brian Michael Bendis made an ongoing effort to fill out the team's ranks during his years-long Guardians run, even if that mainly involved pulling a handful of Earthbound characters like Captain Marvel, Kitty Pryde and The Thing and making them temporary Guardians members. But with the debut of All-New Guardians of the Galaxy, that's done. The roster has been trimmed back down to the core five.
Art by Steve McNiven. (Marvel Comics)
Worse, All-New Guardians seems intent on evoking the movies as much as possible. Groot is stuck in his baby form. Star-Lord can't go anywhere without popping in a cassette tape. The Nova Corps have suddenly morphed from Green Lantern-like heroes to blue collar space cops. None of these sudden changes necessarily detract from the book, but I'm always a little wary of comics that go out of their way to superficially mold themselves after Marvel's movies. The comics are the ultimate source material for everything else. They should be leading the way, not playing "Me too!" Unfortunately, the Guardians and S.H.I.E.L.D. franchises seem to be the two where Marvel struggles most to escape the shadow of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
It's not that Star-Lord, Gamora, Drax, Rocket and Groot aren't great characters who don't deserve to be in the spotlight. It's that they don't deserve to be the only ones in the spotlight. Marvel has way too many cosmic heroes who have lain dormant these past few years. I can understand the desire to make the team approachable and movie-friendly for a while, much as Marvel did with the Avengers back in 2012. But now that we're three years removed from the release of the first Guardians movie, isn't it safe to take greater risks and dig a little deeper into the toy box?
Why is it that the second movie expanded the team roster, yet the comics cling ever harder to that same group of five? Why aren't we at least seeing a greater focus on characters like Yondu, Nebula and Mantis? It's a little bizarre that Marvel is adhering so rigidly to the original Guardians film but not doing much to build synergy between the sequel and the comics.
Whatever happened to these Guardians? Art by Aleksei Briclot. (Marvel Comics)
The appeal with Marvel's cosmic-focused comics is that there's literally an entire universe to explore. Creators can pretty much go anywhere they want and do anything they want with whomever they want. Yet the only series that regularly embraces that idea is Dan Slott and Mike Allred's Silver Surfer. Otherwise, these books are too preoccupied with exploring the same characters and same settings. Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning defined the modern incarnation of the Guardians with their run, and that series was marked by a fluid, ever-changing cast that reflected the constantly evolving cosmic landscape. Marvel has basically taken the opposite approach now.
The general lack of variety in Marvel's cosmic series seems to be getting worse with time, not better. The prolonged absence of the Fantastic Four has been a huge drain all its own. Despite being one of the more critically acclaimed new books of the past six months (and finally appeasing the many Richard Rider fans out there), the new Nova series is already headed for a quick, unceremonious cancellation. It's unclear if Thanos will continue after the departure of writer Jeff Lemire, but I'm not optimistic. Marvel introduced a new heir to the Quasar mantle last year, but outside of her limited role in the build-up to Secret Empire, we've seen very little of this character. More than ever, it seems like those same five Guardians are dominating the cosmic portion of the Marvel Universe.
Marvel is clearly going through a major period of refocusing this year in the lead-up to the Marvel Legacy relaunch. Part of that process needs to involve a change in approach to the company's cosmic properties. It's time to bring back long-dormant heroes like Adam Warlock and Phyla-Vell. It's time to finally expand the Guardians of the Galaxy lineup again. The goal should be to embrace the wide-open canvas that is the Marvel Universe, not focus on greatest hits.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
"Between the Panels" is a bi-weekly column from Jesse Schedeen that focuses on the world of comics. You can see more of his thoughts on comics and pop culture by following @jschedeen on Twitter, or Kicksplode on MyIGN.
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
