Between the Panels: What Marvel Comics Can Learn From Hellboy - IGN

I don't envy any reader trying to jump into superhero comics right now. Sure, there's a wealth of great material out there, with decades of classic stories and strong new material being published every single week. The problem is trying to figure out what to read and where to start. With books constantly being relaunched, rebooted, re-branded and whatever else, it can be all but impossible to know where to begin and in what order to follow an ongoing series.
That problem was perfectly highlighted by writer Eric Palicki last week, who tweeted the following image showing exactly what happens when someone searches for "Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 1" on Comixology:
What is a newbie reader supposed to make of that? How are they supposed to know which of those books is the ideal starting point or what exactly the difference is between Guardians of the Vol. 1, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 1: Legacy and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 1: Cosmic Avengers? I can look at those covers and know what stories each book includes and how they all connect to one another, but I read those stores as they were coming out on a monthly basis. If there are any Guardians fans who got turned onto the comics thanks to the new movie, they're in for a lot of hassle and confusion.
The problem extends to all sorts of franchises. Plug phrases like "Uncanny X-Men Vol. 1" or "Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 1" into that search window and you're in for a similar shock. Nor is it limited only to Marvel. DC has so many Batman comics in its back catalog that you need some sort of futuristic quantum computer to sort through it all. Even relatively smaller franchises like Vampirella and Bloodshot have become increasingly confusing in recent years because of the constant cycle of relaunches.
The example I always point towards to illustrate how confusing this hobby can be involves Ed Brubaker's Captain America run. Brubaker took over the franchise when Marvel relaunched the series in 2005 as Captain America Vol. 5. That lasted 50 issues or so before the series reverted to its legacy numbering with Captain America #600. That numbering continued for a couple more years until Marvel relaunched the series again in 2011 as Captain America Vol. 6. But even as they relaunched the series, they also debuted a companion Winter Soldier comic. That's to say nothing of the various spinoff projects and mini-series that tied into that run, from Captain America Reborn to Steve Rogers: Super-Soldier to Captain America and Bucky.
Art by Steve Epting. (Marvel Comics)
It's incredibly difficult to go back and try to read all of that material in its intended order without having some sort of detailed guide. Even if you stick to reading the trade paperback collections rather than the individual issues, it's not an orderly case of moving from Captain America: Book 1 to Book 2 to Book 3 and so on. Instead, the naming scheme changes several times overt the course of that run. After a while, Marvel stopped giving the Brubaker Cap trades volume numbers at all. Readers are essentially left to look up the dates each trade was originally published and hope that they're on the right track.
Why does getting caught up on superhero comics have to be such a hassle? Isn't the point to be entertained, not feel like you're doing homework? Why is this the only form of media that requires so much effort to consume?
There are all sorts of factors involved in explaining why superhero movies don't do more to spark interest in superhero comics, but I think we can all agree that the needlessly difficult barrier of entry is a huge factor. One of the reasons the Walking Dead TV series has boosted readership of the Walking Dead comic is that it's extremely simple to dive into that comic. Whether you prefer to read the series in single-issue format or trade paperback format or through those massive Walking Dead Compendium books, there's a very clear, obvious reading order to follow. Maybe we'd see a bigger influx of readers for Captain America or Guardians of the Galaxy if those franchises were as easy to dive into.
Image makes it incredibly easy to follow this series.
The problem is that it's not really feasible for Marvel to take the Walking Dead route when it comes to publishing most of its comics. Sure, I'd love nothing more than for every ongoing series to stick to one orderly, consistent numbering scheme and stop with the constant relaunches. But those relaunches are often the only thing keeping a lot of books afloat over the long-term. Secret Empire writer Nick Spencer recently spoke to this problem on Twitter:
