Blood Moon - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Blood Moon is an eerie mechanic in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild that enhances Ganon's power, allowing the spirits of fallen enemies to return to life by the red glow. 
Link will not experience a Blood Moon until he leaves the Great Plateau. The first time unsettling music plays, ashes levitate in the air, and the sky glows red, Princess Zelda will narrate the scene with the following: 
"... Link... Link... Be on your guard. Ganon's power grows...it rises to its peak under the hour of a Blood Moon. By its glow, the aimless spirits of monsters that were slain in the name of the light return to flesh. Link...please be careful." 

There are a few effects to look out for under the red moon, the most obvious one being that enemies return from the dead. There are a few other, beneficial, effects as well. 
Every time the Blood Moon rises, everything in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild comes back to life (except your horses. Sorry). This includes monsters and guardians, even those inside shrines, so the world will never run dry of monster parts to farm. 
If you remember where the combat trial shrines are, you will always be able to stock back up on free, incredibly powerful Ancient Weapons, perfect for defeating Guardians in the overworld. 
Be extra careful if you notice a red moon overhead (you can see it starting around 9 p.m. in-game). You may want to avoid entering enemy camps or engaging Minibosses and bosses until after the Blood Moon passes at midnight. Enemies, including bosses, will regain all of their health after a Blood Moon! 
This can be to your advantage if farming Lynel parts for example, but it's difficult to plan for considering the Blood Moons are random. 
Good things come back with the Blood Moon, too, including weapons, items, and enemy encampment chests. Ingredients like fruit and mushrooms come back as well, but these regrow naturally after a few in-game days pass regardless. 
Consider placing stamps where you can find your favorite weapons lying around so you can return to collect them after a Blood Moon. 
 
Sometimes when cooking, you will hear an extra musical tune at the completion of cooking a dish. This notifies you that you had a critical success! You'll see one of the following benefits after a critical cooking success: 
There's a small window at night during a Blood Moon where all of your cooking endeavors will result in a critical success, guaranteed. Start cooking at 11:30 p.m. in game to get the bonus, but once the cinematic plays at midnight, you will no longer receive it. There's an easy-to-access cooking pot across from Ha Dahamar Shrine at Dueling Peaks Stable you can fast travel to in a hurry if you want to take advantage of a Blood Moon. 
 
Some NPCs, like Hino at Dueling Peaks Stable, act quite oddly during a Blood Moon. Be on the lookout for strange behavior when the sky is red. 
As Hino says, Blood Moons occur during unlucky nights at midnight. This is seemingly random after every few days pass in-game, but some players have theorized it will occur more often the more enemies are slain. 
The effects of the Blood Moon, like cooking bonuses, begin at 11:30 p.m. in-game, and end after the cutscene plays at midnight. 
 
Many players have reported glitchy Blood Moons that happen every day or at times other than midnight. This may be more likely to happen if the The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild has been on for an extended period of time. Make sure to turn off your game every time you're done playing to possibly avoid this glitch. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Things You Should Know in Breath of the Wild | Cheats and Secrets | Dueling Peaks Stable | How to Make Money (Rupees) | Mijah Rokee Shrine | Kilton the Monster Parts Merchant | Under a Red Moon | Lynel Horn | Lynel Hoof
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
