Character Creation - Mass Effect Andromeda Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page contains information on the Character Creation system in Mass Effect Andromeda. 
 


Multi-layered character creation has been a staple of the Mass Effect franchise since the first game. Players are able to not only customize the name and appearence of Pathfinder Ryder, but also their skills, abilities and backstory. 
In a dramatic shift from traditional Mass Effect style, players will no longer be required to select a specific class (such as Solder, Adept, Infiltrator, etc) at the onset of their adventure. 
Instead, Ryder has access to all of the potential skills that Alliance training has to offer, and can choose to focus on as many or as few ability types as they choose. These skills can also be reset and reassigned at any time, allowing players to change their playstyle between - and potentially even during - missions. 
When beginning a new game with a custom Ryder, players are not only given the option to alter their appearance but also select a starting array of abilities for them to use. The initial skill options are: 
Security: Concussive Shot, Turbocharge, Combat Fitness 
Biotic: Throw, Singularity, Barrier 
Technician: Overload, Invasion, Team Support 
Leader: Energy Drain, Annihilation, Team Support 
Scrapper: Charge, Combat Fitness 
Operative: Tactical Cloak, Combat Fitness 
While the requirement of a specific class may no longer be present, players can still choose to specialize their characters with specific ability profiles. 
For example, after investing enough points into Biotic abilities, players will unlock the Adept profile, which offeres bonuses to using exclusively biotic-based abilities. If, however, they player has focused on a combination of Biotic talents and Combat abilities, they will unlock the Vanguard profile. 
Another aspect of character customization that's new to Mass Effect Andromeda is the ability to customize other characters than just your own. 
Players will not only customize whichever of the two Ryder twins they choose to play as, but also be able to affect the other sibling and their father, Alec. This means they will see a difference in appearance (and potentially ability) from both their own different Ryder profiles and other players. 
While it is still unknown whether these changes will be made manually or automatically based on your playable character build, it should prove interesting to see how the family dynamic changes with this update. 

Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
