Combat - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
In the Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Combat has changed a lot from previous iterations of the franchise. This page will list some of these changes and new features in the game. 
The stamina meter makes a return from Skyward Sword, only it plays a larger role in combat, as it is needed to both attack, charge up moves, and defend against strong attacks. If Link's stamina is completely deplated, he will be unable to perform most actions until it completely fils up again. 
Attacks can be performed in a variety of ways, both in L targeting and without. 
If you jump out of the way as an enemy attacks, you can initiate a slow-mo mode. The same can happen with a perfectly timed shield block. This slow-mo mode allows Link to perform a flurry attack with his weapon to rapidy slash at them before they finish falling to maximize damage. 
If you counter an enemy when it swings a weapons, you can sometimes disarm them. A disarmed any will use any attack it can. Disarmed enemies may throw rocks at you. If you time the swing right, you can smack a rock back at the enemy. 
Link is more easily staggered in combat, and larger attacks will knock him to the ground, where he will be stunned for a brief moment before getting back to his feet. 
If Link is sneaking, and the enemy is asleep or unaware, he can even perform a sneakstrike to deal massive damage without alerting others nearby. 
You can also initiate slow-mo by jumping off a high location and pulling out your bow, or by jumping off of your horse. Bow shots can be made either while manually aiming or using L-targeting, and there are different kinds of bow ammunition. 
Getting a head shot with a bow can deal massive damage, often killing the foe instantly if they are weak enough. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Main Page | Weapons | Shrines | Amiibo Unlockables, Rewards, and Functionality | The Shrine of Resurrection | Divine Beast Vah Medoh | Dah Kaso Shrine | Soh Kofi Shrine | Things You Should Know in Breath of the Wild
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
