Dungeon 7 Explorer's Crypt - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Explorer's Crypt is only reachable via Pirate Ship. It's very easy to get stuck in this part of the game, so read on carefully! 
To get around the sea, you'll have to undercut it by going to Subrosia. Head to the southwest corner to the cemetery. Here, you will notice a Pirate standing near a portal. Go in the building below him. Inside, talk to the Captain. He's looking for a Bell. Go upstairs and talk to the Pirates here. One of them will freak out and start bumping into the drawers of a chest. Remember this pattern: you'll need it to open the path to the desert. Go up the set of stairs here and take the portal out of Subrosia. You'll arrive in a cave above. Flip the nearby swicth to extend the bridge around the room, then follow it to the door. You'll out in the south end of Horon Village. 
Head out of Horon Village to the east. Just as you leave, there is a hollow log to the south. Go through it to the beach. Move to the east until you come to the gates of the desert. Talk to the skeleton here and he'll take off, allowing you to be alone to work your magic on the gate. Push the second door from the right twice, then push the second one from the left once, then the first one (on the left) twice.and the rightmost one three times. This will cause the gate to open. 
In the desert, watch out for cacti (they hurt you if you touch them), quicksand and the Leevers. There are also moving cacti called Pokeys here. Head to the right one screen, then go south and fall into the quicksand pit here. In the cave that you fall into, walk to the single square of deep water and dive. Swim all the way to the right, taking down Cheep Cheeps as you go. Surface into a tiny cave, then search the chest on the platform above to find a nifty Ring. Once you have it, hop down from the ledge. Find the ship buried in the sand to the northwest. Enter the door here to meet a pirate's ghost. To help him get to the afterlife, you'll need to find his skull. 
Move to the upper right corner of the desert. There, you'll find the skull in a small oasis. If you put a Bomb on the wall to the north, you'll open an entrance into the fairy fountain. Use the Bracelet to grab the skull and take it around the desert. Go near the center of each whirlpool, but don't fall in. When you reach the pit with the Bell in it, the skull will start yappin'. Drop into that pool, and you'll fall below, getting the Rusty Bell. 
Note: If you drop the skull, just return to the oasis to get it back. 
Return to the buried ship and push the yellow table one space up, allowing you to get to the top half of the room. Follow the stairs back up to Subrosia. 
Once you get back to Subrosia, head to the Smithy. Choose the "Do It!" option to get the Smithy to polish the Bell, and he'll spitshine that sucker. Once it's been transmogrified into the Pirate's Bell, return to the Pirate Captain near Subrosia Cemetery. The ship gets repaired, so get inside it and ride it to new lands. 
Once the Pirate Ship lands, you'll have an opportunity to get an easily overlooked Ring. Get off the ship to the left and move up and around the ship's bow to the beach. Follow the beach to the right until you find a Ring in a chest. Once you've got that, move to the north. Here, you'll discover a small building. Go inside and search the chest for some Bombs. Then pop over the pit to the right and lay a Bomb next to the cracked wall. This will open a passage to the east, leading to a stump. Step on it and change the season to Summer. Then return to the ship and head all the way to the west. Climb the vine here up to the cemetery. Move to the north and climb up the stairs to the next Dungeon. 
Head north from the opening room of the Dungeon. The next room has a locked door to the right. Head left, following the path up to a northern exit. (There is a blue owl here as well, who tells you that "The source of the curse is hidden in darkness.") The next room is completely dark. You can't do anything here yet, so proceed through to the next room to the north. 
As you step inside the room to the north, something tells you to "begone before the fires go out, or else..." As the lights dim, make your way quickly to the east and exit. Here, you'll find a bunch of Wizzrobes. Slay them as they appear. A chest will drop down in the center of the room. Inside is a Small Key. Grab it and head back to the second room. 
Unlock the door to the east and step through. Slay the Stalfos here and climb the right set of stairs up to another chest. Inside is a Ring. Then climb the stairs to the left and follow the path up to the darkened room above. Equip your Slingshot with Ember Seeds. Launch one at each of the torches. This will bring out a Poe named Amy. Leap down into the room and dodge the ghost, then nail her with your Sword as they go by. After about five solid whacks, Amy will leave and the room will stay lit. 
Head through the room to the north. The curse is lifted, so this room will stay lit as well. Use a Bomb on the cracked piece of wall to the left. Then move through and search the chest in the next room. Inside is the Compass. Once you have it, go back to the previous room and use the Bracelet to push the long weights on the right side of the room out of the way so you can access the stairs. Go down the staircase. Once you're downstairs, you'll be surrounded by Armos Statues. Leave this room, heading to the left. 
In the following room, step on the floor switch up on the right to bring a trampoline down from the ceiling. Once it falls, situate it three spaces down and one space to the left of the blue tile at the north end of the room. Then pop up to the room above, pushing up to land on the floor switch in the center of the pit. This will drop a Key down into the room below. 
Return to the Armos Statue room. Touch each of the Statues to bring them to life, then slay them with the Magical Boomerang. All but one can be killed. The last one should be pushed on to the floor switch. This will open the door to the south. Once there, slay the Stalfos here, then proceed to the staircase at the end of the long conveyor belt (on the right side of the room). In the next area, you'll need to ride a quick-moving platform through a maze of blocks over a pit. Then you'll need to use your Magnetic Gloves to propel yourself over to a far left ledge. Before getting on the platform, slay all the Keese you can with the 'Rang. Then jump on the platform and ride it through. When you reach the left side of the room, repel to the left platform and exit to the north. 
As you enter the next room, you'll note a bridge to the north. This will start to "throw itself" at you if you linger too long. Don't linger. Instead, book across the bridge. At the top of the room, head to the left into the next room. There are a ton of Armos Statues and four floor switches here. First, step on the lower western switch, then the left southern switch. Then step on the upper western switch, then finally on the right southern switch. A Key will drop down in the center of the Statues. Grab it and head back to the conveyor room. Head through the south door, unlocking it with the Small Key you just got. 
There is a trampoline trapped in a circle of blocks here. To get to it, push the block below the upper left torch in, then push the block above the lower left torch in one space. Push the middle block up one space and use the Feather to leap over the tramp to the right. Push the trampoline three space to the left, and one space up. When you arrive above, push down on the D-Pad to reach solid ground. You're inside the block enclosure on the first floor. Head to the left and kill the Stalfos and Spark. Search the chest for the Dungeon Map. Then return to the trampoline room below. From here, head to the east through the locked door. 
You'll enter a darkened chamber. Use the Pegasus Seeds to move quickly, then equip and use the Ember Seeds in the Slingshot to light all four torches in this room. This will bring Margaret out from hiding. The drill is the same. Whack her a bunch of times with your Sword and she'll go away, lifting the curse on the room to the left. Move through the previous room and exit to the left. 
In this chamber, you'll encounter a pair of large, iron bars moving over the surface of a pool. Dive in the water and move through, making sure to dive when the bars approach in order to avoid damage. Make your way to the upper right corner of the room, where there is a staircase. Go down the stairs. You'll see a lock block and pit to the right. Ignore them for now and go left. 
The next room is separated by a wide chasm. There are Knights on patrol on either side of the gap. Kill the one near you, then equip the Glove and use it to pull them over the blackness and drop them to their doom. When the other two Knights die, a bridge will extend. Hit the switcher ball, causing the magnets in this area to rotate. Then cross the bridge and go into the room above. 
Here, you'll find a series of rotating magnets. Use the glove to attract yourself to the one above, then hold the button to rotate around it until you reach the small platform to the right. Once you get there, use Pegasus Seeds and the Feather to get to the upper right platform, and then the platform near the top of the room. Go to the far left side of this and look at the magnet below. Attract yourself to it and ride it as it rotates around, then repel to the left until you are under the next magnet. Then quickly switch polarity and attract yourself to the next magnet. You'll have to switch to the up position quickly in order to do this. Once you're in rotation on the final magnet to the left, ride it around until you can repel yourself down to the platform below. 
Use the blue trampoline nearby to propel yourself up into the room above (push right while in the air). Kill the Stalfos here to open the door to the north, then fall back down through the hole. Then hop on the red tramp and you'll be taken up two levels, into a room with several Sparks and a spiked floor. Use the Boomerang to kill the Sparks, then equip the Feather and jump over the spikes, making your way to the upper left corner of the room. Drop through the pit here, then go through the door. 
The next room has a chest on a lonely spiked platform in the center of the room. Use the Boomerang to eliminate all of the Keese here then hop on the green platform that is quickly circling the center island. It's tough to jump on this thing, but if you take off just as the platform is rounding the southeast corner, you should be fine. Then hop to the clear space in front of the chest. Inside the chest, you'll find Roc's Cape. This will enable you to double jump when equipped. 
Go back to the previous room and push the trampoline one space up. Hop up to the room above, then make your way back through the spikes and fall through the floor. Make your way back to the room with the blocked-in tramp, and exit north. In the next room, get on the conveyor belt to the east and go down the staircase here. The next room is filled with Keese. Kill them all, then get on the fast-moving platform just to the south. This will zip you around the room. Use your Roc's Cape at the end of the line to hop over the two-space chasm to solid ground. Exit to the north. 
In the next room, equip your Pegasus Seeds and keep your Roc's Cape. There is a fly-away bridge to the north and you'll have to cross it quickly. Then move to the area to the east. Use your Cape to traverse the two medium-sized pits here. In the next room, use the Glove to pull the Polarities toward you, then slay them with the Sword. This will bring a trampoline tumbling from the ceiling. Push it three spaces to the north, then hop on it and press slightly up. You will land on a moving platform in the room above. Ride it to the edge of the platform and go up the stairs. Go to the west side of the room and pull it over to the left side of the track here, and while still attracting the ball, hop down to the area below. Then drag the ball over to the floor switch and a chest will appear. Grab the Small Key from inside it. 
Once you have it, head to the left and use the Knights to re-open the door to the south. Return through the conveyor belt room and make your way back to the room with the lock block. Use the Small Key on it to expose an area full of crumbled pieces of floor above a large pit. Use the Roc's Cape to jump between platforms, working to the right side of the room. From here, head to the bottom of the room, sure not to stand on any crumbled tile for an extended period of time. Work your way across the room until you reach the green platform to the left. Get on it and ride it down to the edge of the floor, then hop off. Exit south. 
The next area is a huge corridor which encircles a gigantic room. Move all the way around it until you reach a ledge that overlooks a pit swimming with Moldorms. Use the Bombs to take them down, then drop into the room below and make haste across the cracked floor to the southern exit. Move to the bottom of this long, narrow platform and use Pegasus Seeds and Roc's Cape to get over to the platform to the right. Step on the floor switch here to open a door in the lower right corner of the square outdoor corridor. Go to the nearby stairs, push the block out of your way and go to the now-open door. Head through. Time for a Mini-Boss fight. 
The pesky ghosts are back again, and this time, it's personal. This fight is all about keeping the homefire burning. If all of the torches get blown out at any time, you will be placed back in the first room of the dungeon. And who wants that? The object here is to stand near the two torches to the left. Margaret and Amy will try to blow them out. Keep your Slingshot loaded with Ember Seeds and relight the torch whenever it's snuffed. Whenever the ghosts appear, slash at them with your sword. It will take a good deal of whacking to lay these spooks low, but when you do, you'll get a portal and a fairy. Woo-hoo! 
Once the mini-boss battle concludes, go through the door on the right side of the room. The next area is full of Wizzrobes and stairways. This is actually a maze through two rooms: one above and the one you're on. A good rule of thumb is to always go up the staircase furthest to the east. Once you get all the way to the right in the last room, you will see a set of stairs to the north and one to the south. The south stairs go to the Boss fight. The north stairs are what you need. Exit to the north. 
In the next area, you'll have to use your magnet powers to get over yet another precarious chasm. Use the Glove to attract over to the first magnet to the left. Hold on until you're on the left side of the magnet, then propel yourself all the way over the gap until you come to rest against the block here. Quickly switch polarity and point down to attract to the magnet below. Ride it around until you are on the top of this magnet, then propel yourself back to the cracked blocks in the upper left corner. Don't stand on a cracked block for too long. Instead, scoot around until you come to the southernmost tip, then use Roc's cape to get to the single space of ground below. Leap to the moving green platform, then ride it to the left and double jump to solid ground in the corridor to the north. Follow it up and out of this area. 
In the next room, you'll encounter more Wizzrobes and Stalfos. Jump between the platforms with Roc's Cape and slay everything in the area. When you do, a Key will drop from the sky. Grab it and head back to the previous room. Ride the little green platform to the right, then double-jump to the narrow corridor here. Go to the end of this seemingly dead end and push the north block up to clear a path into the room. Exit to the north. 
Here, you'll find the locked door that the Small Key you just got will open. Go through it. Hop over the little gap to the north, then continue up the path until you find a set of stairs leading to a large pool. Swim south until you are looking over three rows of blocks with floor switches at the end. You'll need to jump to each floor switch in order of the number of blocks in the row. Jump to the bottom one first, then the top one, then the middle one, using Pegasus Seeds and Roc's Cape, of course. When you do it successfully, a jumping lane will open on the platform to the right. Move up the stairs in the lower right corner and follow the path all the way to the north, tripping a final floor switch. This will bring down a trampoline at the center of the water room. 
Drop into the water room and pop on to the tramp. It will take you up two levels. When you reach the second level, push down to land on a moving green platform. Once on the platform, shoot a Mystery Seed at the blue owl. He will say "Below me red. My right, red. Only I shall shine blue." Get off on the right side of the room.and take the stairs down. Here you will see a pair of switch balls. Make sure both are red, then go back upstairs. 
Get back on the green platform and go to the left side of the room, then go down the stairs. Here, make the upper ball blue and the lower one red. This will open a door to the north. Use the Cape to double-jump up to that doorway. In the next room, kill the hopping Stalfos and watch out for the torches, which will spit fireballs at you. when all the Stalfos drop, you'll get a chest containing the Boss Key. Head back to the crazy Wizzrobe and stairs room, and this time take the southern staircase to get to the Boss door. 
Gleeok is a crazy two-headed dragon that spits flames at you non-stop once you enter the room. To combat him, equip your Sword and Cape. Immediately after you enter the room, jump and glide, because there are fireballs headed your way. Work up to the two heads of the dragon. Each time one of the heads rears back for a fire spit, leap and float to avoid the attack. Then land and start slashing at the two heads. Hit both of them at once as much as possible. 
Eventually, one head will come off and start zipping around the room. At this point, move in and start hitting the one that's still attached with everything you've got. The object is to knock both of them off at the same time. If you can't get the other one to drop before the first one comes back, you'll have to do it all over again. Don't let this happen. 
When both heads detach, you'll be faced with a new challenge. Now the dragon's body will leap up into the air, and when it lands with a thud, it will knock you off your feet. When you're down, the body will try to steamroll you, which does a lot of damage. To avoid the thud, leap and float before impact. Then run in before Gleeok jumps again and slash him with your sword. Eventually he'll die, leaving you with the next Essence: Seed of Life. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
