Dungeon 8 Sword and Shield Maze - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Sword and Shield Maze can only be reached via the Temple in Subrosia. 
As you exit the dungeon, the Maku Tree tells you that the final Essence is completely up to you. Head up to the Temple Remains (check your map for location--it's above Holodrum Plain). As you go through the hollow log to the west, make sure you have the Slingshot loaded with Pegasus Seeds. Launch them at the Knights here, then kill them with your sword. Head north from this spot and slay the morning star warrior here. Then equip Roc's Cape and jump over the holes in the path. Continue to the right. 
Kill the guards at the steps of the Temple and then go in. Move east and kill the Tektites, then get on the stump and change the season to to Autumn. Go to the left (under the swirling portal), continuing west until you reach a series of three plants in the path (just as it turns north). Chop them down and proceed, moving to a series of holes that are covered over by leaves. Use the Pegasus Seeds to haul butt across these and proceed up the Temple steps. Move south, staying inside the Temple, until you see a stump. Hop on it and change the season to Winter. Head back up the steps, then go right, leaping over the holes in the path. Walk over the ice block here, then south. Here, you'll find a portal to Subrosia. 
Back in Subrosia. Once you get to the land down under, take a hike up the stairs to the north.You see a crazy Subrosian chucking everything he can into a lava hole. Throw a bomb in there yourself and you'll shake the Temple to its very foundations! Lava will rain all over the Temple. Head back to the portal and back to the Temple. 
When you emerge from the portal, head north and look at the purple way ahead. Place a Bomb near the filled-in door, then stand back. Then step inside to find yourself in a large, lava-rich cave. Use your Cape to hop between platforms. At the north end of the cave, you'll find a Heart Piece. Exit the cave and head to the east, sticking to the purple wall. Then move south to the tree stump. Change the season to Summer, then head east and go to the vine that scales the wall. 
Use your Cape to jump over the lava to sandy bits of safe ground. Your goal is the northern cave entrance. Once inside, equip your Glove and line yourself up just to the left of the door, pointed through the craggy gap to the north. There is a magnet on the other side of this gap. Activate the Glove to pull yourself across. Then move east until you can't move any further. Point down and use the Glove again to get across a similar gap. Then hurry to the stairs. 
In the next area, move the green shells that block your path, watching out for the Keese that pepper the cave sky. When you exit up the stairs, you will find yourself atop the Temple. Slay the guards here, then move left. Go down the staircase. Back in the cave, you'll have to battle Gels, Moldorms and Keese as you make your way to the upper left corner. Be careful for weak ground as you walk. Take the stairs up here. Follow the path to another entrance. Inside, you find healing fairies and a portal. Go into the portal to be taken to Subrosia again. Once there, keep heading north to get to the Sword & Shield Dungeon. 
In the first room of the dungeon, exit to the north. You'll be in a room full of Wizzrobes, but run through it to the east. Here, you'll find a room with an eye block at the end of a narrow corridor. Use your Slingshot ot wing a Mystery Seed at it, and the pupil will come to life, dropping a key on the yellow space on the right side of the room. Move the vases below it to claim the Key.   
Go back to the Wizzrobe room and exit to the north. In the next area, you'll see a couple of dormant eye blocks. You can't get to them until you get the Super Slingshot, so just head north on the narrow path and exit. The next room sports a trio of Polarities. Kill them to open a door to the north. 
The next room is covered in ice. Kill the Gels and avoid the Hardhat Beetle, then use a Bomb on the cracked blocks to the north. This will allow you to get at the magnet ball up here. Drag it into the room and over the Hardhat Beetle to smite him. When he croaks, grab the Key that falls and exit to the east. 
Get your Boomerang out and start nailing the Sparks in the next room. Each time you kill one, another health fairy will appear, so it isn't really all that bad in the end. Once the threat has been eliminated move over the ice to the next eastern area. Here, you'll find a lock block which you should open with the Small Key. This will allow you access to the stairs. 
You're in the basement. Drop a Scent Seed at your feet and the Sankeropes in the room will fall into the pits trying to get to it. Pick your way through the walkway here, carefully avoiding Keese and moving vases until you reach the exit in the lower left corner. In the next room, don't linger too long in any one place or a Wallmaster will appear and deposit in the first room of the dungeon. Use Roc's Cape to hop over thr rolling bars as you move to the bottom right corner of the room. Take the stairs down. 
Here, you'll find yourself in a side-scrolling cave. Double jump past the circling fire to the platform here, then double-jump again to go further to the left. Same drill in the next room, except that this time, the platform is moving up and down and there are large lava balls flying up at you. Once you reach the opposite side of the cave, scale the ladder and exit. 
In the following room, kill the Gels, then use the Cape to hop over the rolling bar and make your way across the lava. Take your time making the right jumps. Only use the double jump to avoid the bar, and you'll be much better off. Exit to the south. 
In the next room, dodge the Fire Keese and Blades as you make your way to the right side of the room. There you'll find a floor switch which will open the door in the lower right corner. Go through. In the following chamber, you'll run into some nasty Polarities and Gels. Either kill them or dart up the stairs in the upper left corner. 
The next room is gnarly. You're on an ice rink lined with spikes. To make matters worse, Spiked Beetles will try to punch you into the pain. Make short movements and take your time as you move to the right. Open the chest here to find the Compass. Then return to the previous room. Use the Small Key on the door to the right and go through. 
You'll find yourself in a large turnstile room. Step into the central dial and it will deposit you in the north path. Go up it, then follow the path to the left, ending up back in the previous room. Drop down to the room below and go through the door to the right again. Back in the turnstile room, head through the dial again to be taken to the south path. 
In the next chamber, you'll have to battle Keese, Gels and soem Wizzrobes. When you've sorted them all, go drop a Mystery Seed on the blue owl. He'll mumble something about a watch, so ignore him. Go out the door on the right wall. There is a morning-star wielding guard in the next room. Bomb him, then jump over the stripe of lava and head up the stairs.  
When you get upstairs, you'll be hemmed in by a magnet ball. Push it forward slightly, just enough so you can get above it. Push it down into the alley below. Then, staying in line with the stairs, move over, dragging the ball to the right. Once it's under the square to the left of the stairs (in the lower corridor), go out of the stair hallway to the room off to the left. Here, you'll find several Sparks, some Gels and a group of dormant Armos Statues. Kill the Gels, then touch the Statues one by one, then take down the animated soldiers with your boomerang. Push the block here aside and search the chest to get the Hyper Slingshot. Return to the blue owl. 
The Armos Statue in this room doesn't appear to move. But you can make him by looking at him funny. Make sure you don't kill anything else in the room, then tand three spaces to the north of him. Eventually, he'll wake up and move aside. Go into the area below and head up the stairs. Continue east until you find a chest that contains the Dungeon Map. See the magnet ball you left above? Grab it, but make sure you're pushing away, then slide to the right and the ball will fall on the floor switch. This will create a bridge in the lower right corner of this room. 
Return through the owl room to the chamber to the east. Go up the stairs to find yourself in the other part of the bridge room you were just in. Jump to the bridge and follow it to a stairway. Continue north on the path until you reach a jumping point across the lava. Hop across, then go down the stairs and look to the right. Equip your Glove and use it to attract yourself across this long strip of lava (using a distant magnet). Once on solid ground, continue to the right. 
In the next room, you'll encounter another owl. He says, "Icy cores make piercing blades." Everyone knows that. The door in the lower right corner of this room is the door to the mini-boss fight, but you might want to get some other stuff done first. Go to the upper right corner of the room and align yourself with the middle of three eye blocks. Shoot your new Hyper Slingshot (packed full of Mystery ammo) at the blocks, hitting all three at once. This will make a staircase. Go up it. 
In the room upstairs, use your Bombs on the cracked blocks below, then blow a path through this room in order to get to the left side. Slay the Knights here, then drop Bombs on the corners of the chest here. Once it's free, push a block to get inside it and you'll find a Small Key. Head back upstairs and go through the Mini-boss door. 
Frypolar comes in two flavors: deadly and deadlier. He begins as a fire creature, hurling fireballs at you. Later he'll turn to an ice creature, and in this form, he chucks spikes of ice. Needless to say, either of these things hurts immensely if you're nailed with it. To avoid these attacks, stay as far away from Frypolar as possible. When you see him cast an attack, watch for the shadow to see where it will fall, and get out of the way. 
The strategy to beating Frypolar is easy, but he's mighty fast, so you'll have to be on your toes. If he's in the fire form, use your Slingshot with Mystery Seeds to change him into the ice form. Then, quickly switch to Ember Seeds and hit him with those. That's it. Rinse and repeat. Stay as far away as possible and be patient. Eventually, you'll take down the baddie. 
Once the mini-boss fight concludes, exit to the north. In the next room, you'll have to light a series of torches using the Hyper Slingshot. First, light the central torch. Then quickly move to the right and light the three torches one the right wall with one shot (stand aligned with the center torch). Once these are lit, go to the opposite side of the room and light the other three. When all torches are lit, a staircase will appear on the right side of the platform. Go up the stairs. 
In the next room, exit to the north. The room above sports one of the toughest block puzzles in the game. Pushing a block on this slick surface will result in the block going until it hits something: a wall or another block. Here's how to do the puzzle: 
1. Push the ice block furthest to the left one space down, so it's resting on the purple row of blocks below. 2. Now push the same block to the right. It will come to rest against another ice block. 3. Push the same block again, this time to the north. It will come to rest against another ice block. 4. Push the block above the one you just pushed (the one farthest to the north) to the left. It will come to rest against a purple block near the western door.  5. Push the same block south until it comes to rest against the purple row of blocks below. 6. Now push that block over to the right. It will come to rest against the other ice block. 7. Push that block north (as you did with the first one).  8. Now, push all three blocks to the right, and they'll all come to rest in their appropriate yellow squares. 
Once the puzzle is done, a down staircase will appear on the north end of the room. Go down them to find yourself in another side-scrolling cave. This one can be tough if you don't move fast. The first room is a series of jumps up icy block "steps." Eliminate all the Keese in the room, then jump quickly from block to block until you reach the left side of the room. You don't want to linger on any of the blocks, though, or you'll end up sliding off. 
In the next room, you'll have to jump between a pair of conveyor platforms. Jump on the first one you see and fight against its pull. As you near the top of the room, you'll see another platform. Jump over to it, then quickly double-jump to the left to get to the next area. In this segment of the dungeon, you'll have to jump between a pair of Thwomp Blocks. The biggest thing to contend with here is the icy ledge. To eliminate its effects, simply jump and float immediately, landing on the first Block, then hopping over to the second.  Then leap to the ladder and exit the dungeon. Whew! 
In the room above, kill the Moldorms, then step on the floor switch at the south end of the room to extend a bridge. This will make it so that you don't have to battle all the way through that annoying dungeon every time you die. Exit the room to the east. 
In the next room, you'll encounter some whirling blades and a gaggle of Wizzrobes. Use your Cape to hop over the blades, then slay the 'Robes with your Sword. Move to the east exit. In the next room, slay the Gibdos and Snakropes, then go to the upper right corner. Equip your Boomerang and maneuver it to hit the ball switch, which will extend the bridge across the gap. Once it's extended, move to the southern exit. 
The following room has a couple of large, green platforms moving above a chasm. At the center of the room is a small platform with a bunch of vases and a  floor switch on it. Get on the platform and move to the left side of the room. Take down the Pols Voices with some Bombs, and the door to the south will open. Go through it. On a long dais in the next room is a chest containing the Boss Key. 
Once you get it, move south down the golden dais and hop down to the ice block room. Head back to the turnstile room and maneuever it so you come out on the east path. Here, you'll get a Small Key. Take it back to the block puzzle room. Exit through the west door. In the following chamber, you'll encounter a couple of Sparks. Take them down with the Boomerang, then collect the healing fairies each leaves behind. Exit on the left side of the room. 
Here, you'll see a blue owl, some Gels and a small dais with ice crystals on it. Take down the Gels, then go to the owl. He'll say something about melting the magical ice. Go to the dais and grab an ice crystal. Then take it to the room to the south and throw it into the fiery square. The best way to do this is to stand two spaces away from it and throw. This will cool down the lava in the room below. Take the stairs down to it. 
In the room below, fight through the Fire Keese to get to the chest on the right side of the room. There is a chest here that contains a Small Key. Grab it and head back upstairs. Go back into the blue owl room and drop a Bomb on the cracked portion of wall next to the mysterious bird. Enter the room that opens. 
Watch carefully as the Armos Statue traces a path on the tile. You'll have to mimic his pattern exactly, and each tile you get right will turn light brown. If you screw up, just leave the room and return and the puzzle will be reset. However, the puzzle changes each time it resets, so make sure you watch closely again. When the puzzle is finally complete, you'll get another Key. Return to the blue owl room. 
Grab another ice crystal and hop in the mine cart nearby. You'll be deposited in a room with Wizzrobes and a switch. Once out of the cart, put the ice down, hit the switch, then pick up the ice again and get back into the cart. You will end up in the room you rode through before. Get out and throw the ice into the fire chute. Again, this will clear up the lava problem in the room below. 
Go back down the stairs in the room south of the owl room. Once below, head to the north, and avoid the Fire Keese. Make your way to the staircase here and head up. Once upstairs, move to the right to find a pair of Armos Statues in the hallway. Avoid them and continue down the path, following it until you reach a small chamber buzzing with Sparks. Drop them with the Boomerang, then search the chest here to find a Small Key. Return to the blue owl room and grab another ice crystal. Then get into the mine cart. 
When you pop out, you'll be back in the Wizzrobe room. Put the ice crystal down and use a Small Key on the lock block here, then toss your ice crystal in the fire pit. This will cover the floor again. Then open the door to the south with the Small Key. Go back downstairs and left to the west, then the north. Go up the stairs here to emerge into a room full of Stalfos. Get in the cart here. In the next room, dodge laser blasts and exit north, into the Wizzrobe room. 
Go back to the owl room another time and get a fourth crystal. Then get back in the mine cart and return to the Wizzrobe room. Go through the south door into the laser cannon chamber. Take the ice crystal to the mine cart and hop in. In the Stalfos room, throw the final crystal into the fire, covering the lava below. 
Go down the stairs here. Grab the 10 Bombs out of the chest to the south, then keep heading north through precarious rooms full of Fire Keese until you reach a lock block. Use your last Small Key on it, then step through. Search the vases here to find health. You're going to be battling a Boss. 
Medusa Head, of course, will seek to turn you to stone. In order to combat this, you'll have to beat her at her own game. The Medusa Head will wing around the room shooting fireballs, lasers and stone attacks (white energy balls). Use your Cape to leap over these attacks. 
Equip your Seed Shooter with Pegasus Seeds and nail her whenever you can. When she freezes, charge in and slap her with the Sword. Then prepare to avoid her attacks again. You'll have to repeat this a bunch of times in order to beat her, but the fight is pretty straightforward. Once you beat the Head, you'll get the final Essence: Changing Seasons. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
