Dungeon 9 Onox's Castle - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The final dungeon is Onox's Castle. Take some time to wrap up treasure hunting and be sure to check out the Rings List so you are fully powered up. 
Go back to the Maku Tree with all eight Essences. He's so helpful! He'll give you the Huge Maku Seed, which will allow you to penetrate Onox's Castle. Before heading off to get crazy with Onox, go see Maple in Sunken City. Having a Magic Potion in your arsenal before you face him is almost necessary. 
Once you get a Potion, go to Tarm Ruins. Remember when you went to the Temple Ruins? Instead of going east at the morning star guard, take a left and head west to go to Northern Peak. Climb the stairs to Onox's Castle. There is a cosmic poo-storm that occurs when Link shows up with the Huge Maku Seed. Sit back and admire it. Then move toward the entrance to the castle. Before you get in, you'll be met by Twinrova. She's not so scary. Head north and slay the Fire Cats, then save your game and enter the Castle. 
To the east and west of the first castle room are chambers full of flying tiles. Use your Sword to swat them, then grab the health fairy that comes out. Once you get health, return to the first room and go north. There are a ton of Wizzrobes waiting for you. Use Pegasus Seeds to freeze them, then charge in and polish them off with your Sword. The doors will open when they die. Head through the north exit. 
In the next room, you'll face a bunch of Soldiers and Wallmasters. Again, use the Slingshot to freeze them, then move in and slay them with the Sword. Charged up Sword swipes work well. When they all drop, the doors will open again. Go north. 
Facade is your classic face-in-the-floor. Not a big deal. Throw Bombs on his ugly mug and watch out for the holes that he opens underfoot. After five explosions, his ugly puss will disappear. Grab the fairy he leaves behind, then save your game. 
Tip: If you are killed during your fight with Onox, before saving turn off your GameBoy and continue from the castle steps. This will save you time and a lot of trips to see Maple. 
When Facade drops, move north again. Grab anything you can from the vases here, then continue into Onox's chamber. 
The Onox fight is in two separate stages, and you'll probably have to see them both quite a few times in order to finally win. Din will appear for a moment, then split into four parts. But that's just a prelude to the awful nastiness of Onox. 
In the first stage, the only attack that will work on Onox is a spin attack. Meanwhile, he'll be trying to smash you to dust with his huge morning star. Use Pegasus Seeds to move quickly around the baddie. The whole time, hold down your Sword button to charge up. When Onox draws near, let fly with a spin attack. You'll have to do this seven times in order to beat the first part of this stage. 
