Dungeon 1 Gnarled Root Dungeon - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The road to the first dungeon of Oracle of Seasons takes you to the Hero's Cave, The Maku Tree and finally to the Gnarled Root Dungeon, which is guarded by Aquamentis. 
You'll notice that the beginning of Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages are very similar. In Seasons, Link meets up with Din, the Oracle of Seasons (fancy that), at a camp just to the east of the starting point. Speak to each of her companions at the camp, then talk to Din herself and she'll ask you to dance. Boogie with her for awhile until the General of Darkness, Onox, steps in to ruin the party. He says a bunch of evil stuff, then grabs Din and spirits her away, sequestering the young beauty in the Temple of Seasons. This causes the seasons in the world to go all wacky-like. They're all scrambled, and you'll need to restore that power in order to set the world right. 
Impa, Din's attendant (and ulitmately an employee of Princess Zelda) tells you that she and Din were on their way to Hyrule. But that plan was trashed when Onox came and carted off the swarthy redhead. Now Impa pleads with you to take up the quest. Why not? You're a hero. And you have nothing better to do. After all, weren't you just going to cut some grass and look for Rupees all day? Might as well do it in association with a quest. 
Impa tells you to see the Maku Tree, who resides in Horon Village, the capital city of Holodrum. Like in Ages, the Maku Tree is the questmaster, giving you clues on where to head next, and providing you with items to dispel evil. They just don't make trees like this anymore. Unlike the Tree in Ages, this Maku is a manly tree. But before you can visit him, you're going to need to pick up some gear. 
To do this, you'll need to get a Sword. Head to the west side of Horon Village, then move down the path here out of town, past an Octorok and through the field of rock. The path will bend south. Follow it down to the beach, then enter the cave in the northern rock wall. This is Hero's Cave. 
 
Since you don't have a weapon yet, avoid the Keese in the first room and exit to the east. Push the block in this room up one space to open a door to the north. Exit north and push the block here up one space, opening a path. Follow it around to a set of blocks. Push the left one down and the righht one right to get through. Exit the room to the east. Avoid the Keese and Gels in the next chamber, stepping on the floor switch on the right side of the room. A chest will drop from the ceiling. Inside is a Small Key. Once you have it, move through the previous room back to the chamber with the single block in it. Push it one space in any direction to open all of the doorways here, then leave through the southern one. 
In the next room, you'll see four blocks. You can't move them yet, so avoid the Keese and use your key on the locked door on the right. In the next room, you'll find a group of Gels. Avoid them and move to the upper left corner, stepping on the floor switch there. This will open a door on the north end of the room. Move around the channel in the floor and exit to the north. There is a dais in the next area with a chest atop it. Climb the stairs and open it to discover the Wooden Sword. 
Once you've got it, you will find yourself back outside the cave. If you need some healing, head to the cliff above the cave and enter this upper cavern entrance. You've found a fairy fountain! Return here whenever you're low for a full heal-job. If you want some more goodies, head back outside. Hack the plant on this ledge with your Sword, then hop down into the chute below. This will send you back inside Hero's Cave. Search the chest here for 30 Rupees. Then head back to the room with four blocks. Push the upper left block one space down to open a staircase in the lower right corner of the room. Go down the stairs to find a Gasha Seed. 
Once you have everything, leave the Hero's Cave and return to the village. Head to the east side of the village and climb the steps to the Maku Path, using you Sword to break down the gate. Follow the path north to talk to the Maku Tree. You find the old wooden geezer sleeping. Pop his spit bubble with your Sword and he'll wake up right quick. When you talk to him, the tree tells you how he dropped the ball in watching Din and where you might find Onox (duh duh duuh). But you'll need all eight essences. Then you can tell the old general to backdaheckup. He gives you a Gnarled Key and tells you to take it to the giant root near the lake to the north. 
This is a good time to explore town. Take a look at the Ring Shop on the south side of town and Vasu will walk you through how the Ring system works. Visit the Shop (to the east) and buy a Shield if you have the means. If you have any questions about how the game is played, go see the Know-It-All Birds in the northwest corner of town. 
Once you're done checking our Horon Village, head to the middle of town and take the path north, going past Impa's house. Keep going north until you see a bridge leading off to the west. Go across it to find the Gnarled Root. Use the Gnarled Key on it to access the very first dungeon. 
Head through the first room of the dungeon into a chamber with four blocks and a few plants. Hack the foliage to bring out some healing fairies. Push the upper right block one space in any direction to open all of the doors. Exit through the right door. In the next room, kill the Stalfos to bring a Small Key from the ceiling. Grab it and return to the previous room. Use the Key on the west door. 
In this next room, kill the Stalfos. This will do two things: open a door to the north and bring a chest down from the heavens. Look inside it to find the Dungeon Map. Then leave through the north door. Defeating the Gels here will reopen the door that slams shut behind you. Instead of leaving through the southern exit, get in the mine cart and ride it to the north. Ride it up and through the next room. You'll be deposited in a room with a pair of red Moblins. Slay them and push the block one space down, opening a door on the left wall. Trigger the pinching blades, then wait for them to retract and run through. 
Make your way through the block puzzle at the bottom of the room, then scale the short staircase in the northwest corner of the room. On a platform here, you'll find a chest containing a Gasha Seed. Gosh! A Seed! Hop off the platform here and return to the room with the mine cart. Instead of getting in it, climb the stairs just north of it and move to the right until you see a switch on the ground. Whack it once to change the tracks, then continue east until you find a chest. Inside is a Compass. Grab it, then return to the mine cart and get it. 
The cart will track through a couple of rooms. When you pop out of it, walk back to the left and search the chest for some Bombs. Grab them, then climb the steps above the mine cart. Move a little to the right and go down the set of stairs here. Follow the narrow path down, moving past a spinning blade. Curl up and around the corner, stepping on the floor switch here. This will drop a chest from the sky. Inside is a Small Key. Grab it, then loop around and climb the stairs again. Atop the platform, move to the left until you see an irregularity in the north wall. Place a bomb under it to open a passage in the wall. Weave through the maze in the following room, teasing the blades to bring them out and using the cubbies to duck into so you won't get hit. Make your way to the north side of the room. Here, you'll see a pair of plants. Cut them down to get a healing fairy. Exit to the north to find the mini-boss. 
The Goriya Brothers share a single boomerang which they really like to throw back and forth. The problem happens when you get in their way. Ultimately, if you can predict where the boomerang will go, these guys will be pretty easy to beat. 
Just dodge the whirling 'rang and slay the Brothers with your Sword. When they drop, you'll get a healing fairy and a portal back to the first room in the Dungeon. Grab the fairy and leave through the west door. 
In the following room, dodge the pinching blades that greet you at the door. Move all the way to the left side of the central diamond. Push the leftmost block one space up to gain access to the staircase inside. Go down the stairs to find yourself in a side-scrolling cave. Here, you'll find the Seed Satchel, which is full of Ember Seeds. 
Go back upstairs and return to the mini-boss room. Step through the portal to be taken back to the Gel room. Equip the Ember Seeds and drop one on each torch on the left wall to open the door here. Head through and defeat the boomerang-chucking Moblins. A chest will appear containing the Boss Key. Grab it and go back to the previous room, then exit to the south. Kill the Stalfos here, then go through the door that opens to the right. Push the upper right block to open a door to the east and head through. Four Stalfos guard two unlit torches. Kill them and use your Ember Seeds to light the torches. Then step through the door to the north. 
Kill the blue Wallmasters here, then move to the upper left corner of the room. In the chest here, you'll find a Ring. Move to the north side of the room, then east. On this half, you'll encounter more Wallmasters. Kill them, then hack at the plants on the south edge of the room. Heal yourself with the fairies, then use the key on the Boss door to bring on the fight... 
Aquamentus is a huge, green dragon with a single horn. He has two attacks. A charge attack and a fireball attack. The fireballs spread out so you can easily dodge them, as long as you're not right on top of the boss when he shoots them. 
Aquamentus' second attack is a charge. When he is about to do this, he'll lower his head. This attack can be blocked by a Shield, but you are wiser to avoid it all together by maintaining your distance and stepping out of the way. 
The way to take down Aquamentus is to get up close to him and nail him in the horn with your Sword. Once you get close, whack him as many times as possible before he goes on the counterattack. Twenty hits or so should bring him down. When he dies, make sure to grab the Heart Container and the first Essence in the room to the east. 

