Dungeon 6 Ancient Ruins - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Before heading to the Ancient Ruins, you should stock up on cool stuff first, like the Iron Shield. You can also go on a Treasure Hunt. 
There are a few things to do before you head off to your new quest. First off, you can now complete the Trading Items quest, as detailed in the Items section of this guide. 
Once you get the Power of Autumn, change the season to Autumn and go back to Eyeglass Island. You'll now be able to get over to the chest there and claim a rare Gasha Seed. 
Another thing to do is to go get yourself a brand new Shield. Head to the big furnace. South of it is a stream of lava. Leap across, then head to the left. On the left side of the screen is a platform with a chest atop it. Use the magnetic block in the lower corner to traverse the four holes in the path, then step into the cave. Continue up the stairs to find the chest above. Inside is the Red Ore. 
Go north to another S magnet block. Use it to repel across to the left, then head all the way west until you reach the Market. Grab the Member's Card from the bottom of the row of goods. It'll cost you 5 Ore Chunks. Now when you go back to Horon Village, you'll be able to get the Treasure Map. While you're at the Market, get the Silver Seed from the top of this row. 
Return outside. Now go up to Mt. Cucco and head through the portal atop the mountain. Once you get below ground, head north until you see a pair of holes near a blue Subrosian. Leap over the holes and make your way along the lava coast to the west. When you get a chance to go south, do so, reaching a clearing stuffed with holes and magnetic blocks. Use your Gloves to get over the first series of holes, then keep heading right until you reach a chest. It contains the Blue Ore. If you keep going and work your way to the lower left corner, you'll discover an orange square of soil. Dig it up to get a Ring. 
Once you get the Blue Ore, head to the east of Subrosia and find the big furnace. Go inside and head to the Subrosian wearing the dew rag. Give him the Red and Blue Ore and they'll make Hard Ore out of it. Take the Hard Ore north of the Market, then west to the Subrosian Smithy (he's the guy in the cave with a bunch of Shovels behind him). Select "Do Whatever" and the Smithy will turn your Wooden Shield into an Iron Shield. 
Head back to Horon Village and go to the Shop. Now that you have the Member's Card, you can get into the secret room in the Shop. Head down there to find all new wares for sale: a bigger Seed Satchel, a Gasha Seed or a Treasure Map. Grab the Treasure Map. Now when you look at your Map Screen, treasures will sparkle. Grab the Satchel while you're here. 
Take a look at the map and check out where the treasures are placed. To get the first one, head to the west of Horon Village and exit the town. On the next path, hop off the notch here down to the beach. On the edge of the water is an unlit torch. Light it with the Ember Seed to extend a pier to a small island to the south. Head over and drop a Mystery Seed on the question mark formation, then kill the Moldorm that appears and a chest will materialize. Inside is the X-Shaped Jewel. 
For the next item, warp to Spool Swamp. Use the stump in the swamp to change the season to Winter. Move down through the gnarly, frozen over swamp until you reach the narrow passage that you used Ricky to get through. Call him with your flute and use him to get to the south end of the screen, then move east. Watch out for the Pincers that spring at you from out of the ground. Ricky will crush the small mounds of snow near these holes. Move all the way to the right, then head up to the blocked in cave here. One punch from Ricky will open it. Hop off of him and go into the cave. In the chest here is the Square Jewel. 
To get the next Jewel, warp to North Horon and make your way to the Gnarled Root Dungeon entrance. Go south from here and get into the water, then swim left, then down to find a cave entrance. Inside, you'll find a chest with the Round Jewel inside. 
For the final Jewel, return to the area in front of the Dancing Dragon Dungeon. Jump into the water and swim to the upper right corner. Dive here to take you to a subterranean cave filled with water. In the upper right corner of the cave is the Pyramid Jewel. 
Once you have all of the Jewels, warp to Spool Swamp. Head to the right to find a sign that points the way to Tarm Ruins. Go north from the sign, through the hollow log. Go near the symbols on the wall to the north and your jewels will be placed into the wall. Once the gate opens, head north and get on the stump. Make sure the season is Summer, then climb the vine on the cliff face. Kill the Soldiers here, then move to the west. Climb down the vine here, then move to the Armos Statue in the small field. Push it one space up to make a staircase in the cliff wall to the north. Return up the vine and head to the east, then head back down the first vine. 
On the stump here, change the season to the Winter, then go through the space you've made to the left. Climb the stairs next to the Armos Statue, then pop down on to the snowdrift to the left. This will allow you to climb the stairs you recently made. There's a stump here. Don't get on it yet. Instead, push the bottom Armos Statue on to the ice. Then change the season to Autumn and the statue will fall into the pond, allowing you to get through. Go all the way to the east and move the mushrooms guarding the hole in the ground here. There is a Deku Scrub here. He'll try to attack you, but Shield yourself from his attacks and he'll help you. He'll tell you how to avoid getting lost in the forest: "travel west, then south, east and north, taking each step in a warmer season." 
Once you're done with the Scrub, go back to the stump and turn the season to Winter. This will allow you to get over the frozen pond and follow the north path. Get on the stump and revert to Autumn, then move the mushrooms in the path and head to the left. Kill the Like Likes in the next field, then blow up the blocked-in passage on the cliff face. Step inside for a full healing makeover. Then move all the way to the south, until you see a small tree in the path. This is where you go to get the final trading item, as discussed in the Items section of this guide. 
Once you get the Noble Sword, go west, then north to the stump. Step on top of it and change the season to Winter, then head west. Get back on the stump and change the season to Autumn, then go south. Get back on the stump and change the season to Spring, then go east. Then pop on the stump and change the season to Summer, finally moving north. You'll reach a field of Armos Statues. Keep heading north and climb the stairs, up to another Mystical Tree. Go to the east from here and change the season to Autumn. Go back to the west and move the mushrooms here, then torch the small tree. Follow the stairs down to find a chest. Inside is a Gasha Seed. 
Go back to the right and get on the stump, changing the season to Winter. When it's cold, go south, then head to the right. Burn the row of trees here, then head north until you reach a path through the snow mound. Once you get atop it, head up the stairs, then to the left. You'll reach a small stump blocking a bridge to the west. Since you can't get past it, move the bottom of the two Armos Statues to the right, exposing a notch in the cliff. Jump down from here into the valley below. Get on the stump and change the season back to Spring, then hop on the Spring Flower to catapult up to the ridge above. Follow the bridge across to the entrance to the Dungeon. You will be confronted by Twinrova, who will cackle and get spooky, then disappear. Head into the Dungeon. 
In the first room head north to a narrow hallway with a locked block to the left. Go up the stairs ahead and exit through the north passage. You'll find yourself in a room with a large turnstile at its center. Step on it and it will take you to the east path. Continue east to the next room. Kill the Snakeropes here and exit to the east, bypassing the locked door to the north (for now). Equip your Feather as you step into the next chamber. Hop over one of the pinching blades that greet you at the door, then move around the pit that blocks your path. On the far right side of the room is a chest that contains a measly 5 Rupees. Grab them if you want, then exit to the south. 
In the next room, slay the Snakeropes. Place a Bomb in the middle of the south wall to open a secret room stocked full of Rupees. Go back to the previous room, then go west through two chambers. You'll reemerge in the second room of the Dungeon. Climb the right set of stairs here, then return to the turnstile. When you step on it this time, you'll go to the western side of the room. Head down the passage here to another room full of Gibdos. Kill them, then go through the north exit. 
In the next room, a Spark scoots around the perimeter and a Hradhat Beetle greets you at the door. Beat the Beetle into the pit, then take down the Spark with the Boomerang. Go into the block maze and use the Magnetic Gloves to grab and drag the ball to the edge of the maze (right next to the pit). Use the Feather to hop over the channel to the north, then use the Gloves to push the ball across the pit into the lower half of the room. From there, drag the ball to the right side of the room, below the pit. Push it across the pit above, then drag it all the way to the right. Finally, drag it down on to the floor switch on the right wall. This will cause a Small Key to fall from the sky. Grab it. 
Go back to the previous room and head through the south exit. In the next room, kill all the Snakeropes, then mount the stairs to the west and follow the narrow path up to a chest, which contains the Dungeon Map. Once you have it, go back down into the room. As long as all of the Snakeropes are dead the block here will move, opening the door to the right. You'll be back in the hallway room, just north of the entrance to the Dungeon. Use your Magnetic Gloves to pull the magnet ball off of its perch on the ledge to the north, then finagle it on to the floor switch in the lower right corner. This will keep the door to the left open. Now that that's done, unlock the block to the right to enter the hallway. Now head up to the turnstile and go through it until you're heading north. 
In this room, slay the Spark with a Boomerang toss and the Snakeropes with your Sword. Then use your Magnetic Gloves to pull the magnet ball from the right to the left, coming to rest on the floor switch there. This will open a staircase in the upper left corner of the room. Go up it to the second floor. 
When you get upstairs, note the pit in the bottom left corner of the room. Falling through it will take you to the room below. Use your Feather to hop across the patches of spikes in the floor, then use your Sword to bust up the rocks in the path as you work your way through the maze. Beware of the spinning blades. Once you make it to the east side of the room, exit south. Use your Shield/Sword combo on the spiny Beetles in the next room, then search the chest on the left wall to find a Small Key. Go back to the first floor and head through the turnstile, turning it yellow. Maneuver through the rooms until you can ride the turnstile to the east path (this will require running through the western rooms twice). 
In the room to the east (the one full of Snakeropes) is a locked door. Unlock it and step through to a room filled with danger. You'll need to dodge the blasts from the laser turret at the center of the room while riding a couple tiny platforms up to treasure. To do this, step on the platform that is moving vertically just to the left of the laser turret. This will take you up to another platform that is moving left and right into the northwest corner. Get on it and ride it to the chest, which contains the Compass. Then return to the ground near the door and ride the platform here to the east. Step off and go to the next room. 
Make your way to the northeast corner of the next room, and be sure to clear out all the Keese here. In the corner, you'll find a floor switch. Before stepping on it, equip your Pegasus Seeds and get ready to book. Step on the switch and drop a Seed, then move down and go on the path directly under the switch, making your way to the extended walkway in the upper left corner. Cross the walkway to get to the last part of the laser turret room. Here, you'll find an up staircase. Mount the stairs. 
In the room above, slay the Gibdos and grab the Bombs out of the chest. Then place a Bomb on the cracked portion of wall to the south. Once the passage is opened, move through. In the following chamber, you will see a group of Armos Statues in the center of the room. In between them is a chest containing 5 Rupees. If you don't touch them, they won't wake up. Leave them alone, grab the loot and head to the west. This will take you to the bottom half of the spiny Beetle room you've been in before. Push the tramp here all the way to the right, on to the purple floor tile. Then jump on the trampoline to get to the room above. Once there, head through the south door. 
In the next room, dodge the mace-wielding Soldier and duck into the room to the right. Go to the right side of the chamber and search the chest here to find the Magical Boomerang. This sucker has a much wider arch than its lesser counterpart, and can also be steered once thrown. Once you get the 'rang, the Armos Statues come to life. Put them down with a series of Bombs, then go back to the previous room. In the lower left corner, smash the crystal rocks and step into the pit to return two floors below. Use the magnet ball to depress the floor switch, opening the door to the left. Go back through the Snakerope room and climb the stairs on the left side of the chamber. Move up the platform and leave through the left door. 
In the next room, open the chest in the northeast corner to find 10 Rupees. Then turn your attention to the block labyrinth to the left. Make your way through the maze to the bottom left corner, avoiding the spinning blades. Step on the floor switch here, then cruise back to the north end of the room and exit. 
In the next room, it's time to put that Magical Boomerang through its paces. Stand to the right of the low wall in the northwest corner. Throw the 'Rang and steer it into the crystal ball here, opening a staircase to the north. Go up it into a room full of Gibdos. Move through the east exit. Here, you'll encounter a pair of fast-swirling blades. Use your Feather to leap over them as you move to the upper right corner of the room. Step on the floor switch here and a bunch of Snakeropes will fall from the sky. Polish them off with your Sword, then go through the exit to the south. 
Kill the Stalfos here, then head to the left in this huge room. As you move left, dodge the spear shooters in the wall, making your way to the small niche to the left next to the large pit. Here, you'll see a crystal ball tracking back and forth. Use your Magical Boomerang to hit it, changing it to red. This will open the south doorway. Go through it. As you step into the next room, move to the left side to the pit in the floor. Fall through to the room below. 
Here you will find a trampoline tucked in the corner. This can be used to return to the floor above. Kill the Spiny and Hardhat Beetles, then move to the south end of the room. Uproot the vases here to get health and other goodies, then move to the right side of the room. Get on the platform and shoot each of the five torches with Ember Seeds in order to open a staircase at the north end of the room. 
Go up the stairs and immediately exit to the right to find yourself in a room full of Keese and Armos Statues. There is a huge Rupee gem just to the right of the entrance. Once you grab it, you'll have to move quickly, as the walls will start closing in. Equip your Feather and Pegasus Seeds in order to get through unscathed. The general idea is to move as quickly as possible all the way to the right, then turn the corner and trek all the way back. To do it in time, use the Pegasus Seeds and leap over the lines of spikes with the Feather. Eventually, you'll exit to the left. On top of a small altar here is a chest containing the Boss Key. Once you have it, head back through the door to the right and scoot up the stairs in the lower left corner here. 
Once upstairs, kill the Stalfos in the room, then push the upper left block one space in any direction and the door to the north will open. In the next room, slay the onslaught of Snakeropes, then move to the upper right corner of the room and drop through the floor. There is often a fairy contained in the vase near the wall, so get that first. Once below, follow the path down a chest. It contains a Small Key. Go back to the nearby trampoline and bounce to the room above. Use the Small Key on the locked door here to meet Vire. 
Vire's chamber is completely lined in spikes, so you'll have to step lively in order to beat him. Vire is the lapdog of Onox, but he definitely isn't a chip off the old baddie. He has several fireball attacks, but they are easily deflected by swatting your Sword. 
The main thing about this fight is staying in the center of the arena. Vire will come in for a piece of you every once in a while, but if you just keep a-swinging, you'll take him down easily. Just keep that Sword slashing and Vire will be toast. When he is, you'll get the fairy and portal, as per usual. 
When the battle is over, go out the eastern door. In the next room, you'll encounter a row of pinching blades and wall spears. Equip your Feather and run to the right, leaping over the blades as they collapse on you. Keep moving to the east, hopping over the rolling, metal logs. Once you reach the other side of the room, go to the upper right corner and step on the floor switch. This will open the door to the south. Go through. 
In this room are a pair of floor switches. Step on one and a group of Snakeropes will fall from the sky. Step on the other and a flight of stairs will appear in the lower right corner of the room. Go up to a room with several Wallmaster. Kill them, then move through the slanted rows of blocks and exit to the north. You'll find yourself in a room with a pair of Hardhat Beetles. Run around them to get them into a clump, then mount the stairs to the north. Use your Magnetic Gloves to latch on to the magnet ball here, then position yourself above the Beetles and jump down with the ball in tow. If it lands on top of them, they will die, opening a passage to the left. 
Go through the door into a room with a couple of Soldiers and a Wizzrobe in it. Kill them and move to the lower left. Here is a low wall under a series of three moving crystal balls. Use your Magical Boomerang to hit all three. When they're all red, exit through the door that opens to the south. Climb the stairs into the higher part of the room, then kill the Shrouded Stalfos here. Push the trampoline down against the south wall, then to the right so that it's even with the eastern staircase. Then pop up to the room above. Use your Rang on the crystal ball to the north. Then fall through the floor. You've made a staircase appear downstairs. Climb up it, then push the single block above the field of purple tiles. Then move up to the Boss Door. 
Manhandla is pretty tough to beat. Sure, he's just a plant, but he's got four heads and take a while to drop. Each of the four heads is repeatedly spitting fireballs at you, so you'll have to move around quite a bit in order to stay alive. 
To take on Manhandla, you'll need your Feather and Magical Boomerang equipped. The Feather is to jump over the fireballs as you race around the arena. The Boomerang is to get at each of Manhandla's four venus-fly trap style noggins. You can only hurt them when their mouths are open, and often that means you'll have to nail the ones on the opposite side from where you are standing. The easiest way to do this is to stay near the bottom of the room, throwing you 'Rang directly up, next to the boss. When the Boomerang is at its furthest point, step under Manhandla, and the Boomerang will come back to you through his body, injuring him in the process. 
The most important thing to keep in mind is to stay on the move. Don't worry about attacking... that will eventually take care of itself, as long as you keep sending your Boomerang out. When you've toppled all four of the plant's heads, he will turn into stem form only. When this happens, hit him repeatedly with your Boomerang at close range. Eventually, he will shrivel, exposing a central heart. Use your Wooden Sword to destroy that and win the battle. One swing will do. 
Once you beat Manhandla, go grab the Essence and Heart Container. Then listen to the Maku. He hears an essence in a cemetary to the west of Horon Village. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
