Follow the Runaways With These Essential Comic Books - IGN

If you don't know the Runaways, know is the time to start educating yourself. These renegade teen heroes are making their live-action debut in Hulu's Runaways TV series next year. And before that, Marvel is gearing up for a new Runaways comic as part of the Marvel Legacy relaunch.
Clearly, now is the time to get caught up on this cult-favorite franchise. That's where we come in. We've broken down the main Runaways saga chronologically, covering all the team's major appearances and other key stories they've appeared in over the years. We've tried to keep this article as spoiler-free as possible, as there's no substitute for experiencing the Runaways comics for yourself.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
The original volume of Runaways spanned 18 issues and told a pretty complete story about the rise of new teen superhero team. Here readers are introduced to strategic genius Alex Wilder, neophyte witch Nico Minoru, jock/tech whiz Chase Stein, surly loner Gertrude Stein, ethereal alien Karolina Dean and super-strong mutant Molly Hayes. These six Los Angeles-based youngsters discovered that their parents were all members of a secretive cabal of supervillains known as The Pride. Even as they come to terms with their own budding superhuman powers, these characters decide that the only way to escape their parents' influence is to go on the run and try to take down the Pride themselves. That innate distrust of authority (even groups like The Avengers) is one element that immediately set the Runaways apart from other Marvel teams. That, and the fact that Gert gained a pet dinosaur named Old Lace.
These first 18 issues lay the groundwork for everything to come with the team, following their struggles to remain one step ahead of their parents and the group dynamic that forms over time. The series eventually culminates with a shocking betrayal and the final confrontation between the Runaways and the Pride.
Essential Graphic Novels: Runaways Vol. 1: Pride & Joy, Runaways Vol. 2: Teenage Wasteland, Runaways Vol. 3: The Good Die Young
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
While original writer Brian K. Vaughan and artist Adrian Alphona remained on board the series after that initial 18-issue run, Marvel elected to relaunch the series to reflect the fresh jumping-on point after the end of the Pride conflict. With Runaways Vol. 2, the team settled into a more ongoing status quo, one that saw them remain off the grid and try to prevent other villains from taking advantage of the void left behind by the Pride.
The series introduced two crucial new members to the team in the form of cyborg Victor Mancha and Skrull refugee Xavin. The Runaways also began to interact with the wider Marvel Universe in this second volume, battling the New Avengers and meeting Marvel's original teen Runaways, Claok and Dagger.
