Follow the Sheikah Slate - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Welcome to IGN's Walkthrough for the Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. This page contains information on the first major quest in the game - Follow the Sheikah Slate. 
Breath of the Wild is a very open-ended game, a first for the series. As such, the guide below is just one of many possible ways you can experience the game. We recommend you take time to explore the world at large in-between the main objectives you are given. 
 


Video Guide: Follow the Sheikah Slate
After you've left The Shrine of Resurrection and begun exploring the Great Plateau, a voice will ask you to use your Sheikah Slate. 
Look on your map for the yellow map point placed over on the Northeast side of the Great Plateau. You'll most likely have to face a few Bokoblin on the way over to the large rock formation - so be sure you have some weapons on you, and be sure to loot more from the Bokoblins you kill. 
Your target looks like some ruins covered in rocks, with a pedestal just poking out from under large brown rocks. Place your Sheikah Slate onto the pedestal, and the entire place will rumble and shake as a large imposing tower bursts from the ground taking you high up into the air. This is one of many Resurrection Towers spread across Hyrule, and you'll note similar towers rising up all over the land. 
Interacting with one of these towers will extract the regional map info for the area you are currently located in, in this case, you'll get a much more detailed view of the Great Plateau. Activated towers also serve as fast travel spots, letting you quickly get across Hyrule when you start finding more towers. The towers themselves also make great sightseeing vistas, allowing you to quickly get a lay of the land, mark interesting points on your map, and plan your next move. 
As Link looks off in the distance, a voice will call to him, explaining a bit of the mystery of your awakening, and the evil that you are now destined to face: Calamity Ganon. It will be up to you to stop him - but first things first: You need a way to get off the Great Plateau. 
Get down from the tower by either climbing the sides carefully down, or looking for small platforms below that go down in a circle letting you safely drop down to the next platform. When you reach the bottom, you'll be greeted by the mysterious Old Man who will give you your next big task on The Isolated Plateau. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough | The Shrine of Resurrection | The Isolated Plateau
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
