GBC Cheats - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page contains a list of cheats, codes, Easter eggs, tips, and other secrets for The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons for Game Boy Color. If you've discovered a cheat you'd like to add to the page, or have a correction, please click EDIT and add it. 
Warp to Tarm ruins and go south to the Lost Woods. You'll find a Deku Scrub who loves music. One screen west of him is an unusual Like-Like. Like-Likes respawn without you having to leave the screen.  Using the Maple's Ring, kill 15 of the creatures, and go east one square.  You should have an encounter.  Repeat at will.
Submitted by He look-a like-a like-like
Time your Gasha plantings! Plant plenty of gasha seeds in places you won't forget, go to your next level, complete the level up to the point where the boss is, and before fighting the Boss, harvest your nuts. If you did badly with the Miniboss etc, they are more likely to give you hearts. 
  
You will probably get several rings, a potion and some hearts if you had enough. Once you have harvested all of the nuts, plant Gahs seeds in their place. Go defeat the Boss, and come back, you will have more nuts. 
 
Go to Subrosia for Gasha seeds. They are at:   (1) Subrosian dance  (2) Treasure hunt house  (3) Market 
 
Go into the waterfall in the room in the Temple of Seasons where you get the Rod of Seasons to enter a secret room with absolutely nothing in it. To get into another room that has absolutely nothing, use the Shovel behind the clock-maker's house in Horon Village. 
In the second dungeon you can bomb a wall with the blocks in the form of an arrow pointing to the west wall. Go inside and find a room full of rupees. 
When you pick a new game enter: NNNNN NNNNN NNNNN NNNNN. You will start with the Victory Ring and a very odd name. 
Not only do you get a strange  name and the Victory Ring (The evil king Ganon defeated), you also have  an extra heart container, and, when you go to Bipin and Blossom's  house, the baby also has a strange name. 
Additions by gameboyBS1 
