Geth Attack part 4 - Mass Effect Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story

Walkthrough - Feros - Geth Attack part 4 
Enemies will be encountered in two primary waves, and both are pretty much the same as the other. Sadly, there are Geth enemies in both waves that can only be damaged with missiles, so be sure to train your missiles on them to deplete their health and shields simultaneously. During the second enemie encounter, after taking out the Geth Colossus with your Mako cannon, you might want to leave the mako and snipe the remaining Geth troopers on foot (for more xp). On top of that there's a passage here, to the right, just in front of a crate, that leads into an underground corridor where, at the northern end of it, another Geth awaits you. After you take him down, you'll find an upgrade kit and a secure storage locker. Then head back to the Mako and continue. When you've finally reached the end of the Skyway, you should then get out of the Mako and seek out a subtle pathway leading down into the concrete structure. You'll find some friends below. 
  
In this small refugee camp, there's little to do of interest except to look for an ExoGeni representative named Ethan Jeong, who will be speaking with a Feros worker of some rank named Juliana Baynham. As you speak with them, you'll find that Ethan is a bit of a coward while Juliana has the situation more under control. You'll learn that the Geth seem to be interested in the ExoGeni building, which you can traverse another Skyway to reach. And you'll also learn that these people thought all other humans on the planet had been killed (which isn't true). It's time to head to ExoGeni, to give these people some hope. 
  
  
Head back to the Mako and continue to drive up the incline towards another garage door. This will lead to the Skyway-like corridor that will lead directly to the ExoGeni main building. Like last time, you'll have to fight plenty of Geth. But since you'll have your Mako, you shouldn't have too much of a hard time. Be sure to keep an eye on the structural integrity of the Mako, repairing it as needed, and don't for any reason get out of the vehicle while the Geth are firing at you. You stand a much higher survival rate when you stay inside the Mako, especially with all of these missiles flying around that would otherwise end you in a single hit, even with full health and shields. 
  
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Walkthrough part 45 | Feros
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
