Great Fairy Fountains - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
In The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the Great Fairies of Hyrule still exist, though not many have ever seen one, and their locations have faded into legends told by travelers. For one so brave as to find one, that person could gain new power - for a price. 
There are four Great Fairies to be found in Hyrule, each residing in a large closed orange flower that can sometimes be seen from a distance. These large flowers are also often surrounded by the familiar pink Fairies that you can grab if you sneak up on them quietly. Upon finding a Great Fairy, you'll find that the reclusive fairies won't be able to reveal themselves until they can gain power - which involves a monetary transaction. 
 


Video Guide: All Fairy Fountain Locations
Once you've agreed to pay said one-time transaction (which can vary depending on the fairy), the Great Fairy will burst forth revealing a splendid fairy fountain. In exchange for your heroic donation, each of the Great Fairies will offer to upgrade your Armor to bolster its effects and defense - however doing so will require several Materials that depend on the Armor chosen, and how upgraded the armor already is. This will add a star to the armor - showing that it has been upgraded. For every upgrade, you'll get another star. 
This also means you can upgrade your armor from different fairies for the same effect. 
Upon unlocking each successive Great Fairy, all Great Fairies will become more powerful. In other words, all Fairies strengthen each other upon being released. It does not matter which order you unlock them in. 
There are four Great Fairy Locations found across Hyrule. 
Great Fairy Cotera can be found in the hills above Kakariko Village, in a clearing just past Tal'noh Naeg Shrine. 
Great Fairy Kayasa can be found in the Tabantha Region, south of Totori Lake and the Rito Village. If you climb up the Tabantha Tower, look along the South side of the tower and you should be able to spot the large green flower bud below you on the ridge across from the tower - and you can glide all the way to it. 
Great Fairy Mija can be found in the Akkala Region far in the Northeast. It is located along the Southeastern lip of the lake, just to the East of Dah Hesho Shrine. You can spy the grove of green, yellow, and orange trees it hides in by looking from the Akkala Tower towards the East, just past the Dah Hesho Shrine. 
Great Fairy Tera is one of the hardest to find, located in the vast desert of the Gerudo. To get there you'll likely need heat or cooling effects to survive the extreme temperatures of the day and night, as well as a Sand Seal to make travelling easier. Head to the far Southwestern tip of the map (and note that your map functions may not work in some of the sandstorm areas. You'll need to be on the lookout for a large skeleton under which both the Hawa Kosh and Fairy Fountain are located. 
Both similar and yet different to the Great Fairies of Hyrule is Malanya the Horse God. Like the Great Fairies, she's located in a hidden fountain - in the Lake Hylia Region of Hyrule, South of Highland Stable that you can reach by following the road West until it curves back across a small bridge. 
Malanya will ask for a flat rate of 1,000 Rupees - regardless of whether you've freed other Great Fairies. She also looks...very different from the others. 
Once free, Malanya will let you resurrect any horses you have registered that have died under your care. This includes rare and legendary horses like the White Horse, Big Horse, and Epona. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Main Page | Armor | Blue Nightshade | Hylian Trousers | Ancient Spring | Old Shirt | Ancient Screw | Things to Do First in Breath of the Wild | Warm Doublet
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
