House of Cards: Season 5 Review - IGN

This is a non-spoilery review for all 13 new episodes of House of Cards: Season 5, which is now available on Netflix. For those who've finished Season 5, I talk about story specifics and the ending to the season as a whole over on the House of Cards: Season 5 Spoiler Discussion Page.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
As part of Netflix's giant month without chill -- May -- which saw the return of Bloodline, Sense8, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, The Ranch, and F is for Family, House of Cards' fifth season was squeezed in under the wire, on Tuesday the 30th, so that it could be make the Emmy cut-off date for nominations. Had it just waited one more week and dropped on Friday, June 2nd, there would have been no hope for Kevin Spacey, Robin Wright, or any of the other performers on this once-buzzed about Netflix Original to possibly get recognized for their work on the show.
That's important, because the performances here, five years in, are still formidable and ferocious, representing a combination of both fury and repression, resentment and ambition. If you're a fan of the Underwoods and their ever-evolving, revolving, political circus of pain then you obviously recognize the work the stars are putting in when it comes to crafting these characters and creating this particular alternative dimension of malaise and malice.
Everyone's somehow working themselves to death, double-dealing, back-stabbing, playing all sides, and looking out for numero uno simultaneously. It's a show that can dive into the grinding minutia of politics power plays and then, out of nowhere, become histrionic and Shakespearean.
The trick here, as always with House of Cards, is balancing those tones. This is a series that's prominently featured flat out murder in the name of grubby political power grabs and then spent handfuls of episodes featuring its key players playing by the "rules" while trying to scramble to get votes, win support, convince people to change loyalties in order scratch and claw their way out of various dilemmas of their own doing. And it's all played, more or less, on the same level. Basically, taking someone's life is almost as routine of a measure as campaigning, lobbying, making secret deals, approving covert missions, etcetera. It's an issue that House of Cards hasn't been able to fully fix.
In Season 2, the murder of Zoe Barns shot the series into tumultuous territory. Sure, Frank had murdered back in Season 1, but the fact that Zoe's death came at the very end of the Season 2 premiere, coupled with the "shock" surrounding her being one of the show's main characters, created a story gateway that felt grating and overly-sensational. Since then however, save for Doug murdering Rachel, the show mostly buried itself back into politics and Frank Underwood's constant struggle to exist in a world where his innumerable sins threaten to take him down at every turn.
