How to Upgrade Your Inventory - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Upgrading your inventory in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild for weapons, bows, and shields requires plenty of Korok Seeds and the help of the most adorable Korok around, Hestu. 
Hestu will increase your inventory in exchange for Korok Seeds. Pick the category and fork over the seeds. The required amount will increase each time, per category. To find Hestu, you need to complete the side quest "The Priceless Maracas." This quest can be found on the road to Kakariko. Simply defeat the nearby Bokoblin and give Hestu his maracas back. 
Hestu will do a couple of upgrades for you right there before remembering the way home to Korok Forest. He'll set out as soon as you leave to go back home. The catch is that Hestu doesn't make it all the way home. His next stop will be in one of two places. 
He will either go near Riverside Stable, which is west of Kakariko and near Hylia River. If you can't find him there he should be at Woodlands Stable, which is south of Korok Forest along the main road. 
Hestu will do a few more upgrades here before remembering his way home once again. Just like before, hand over a few Korok Seeds for upgrades before Hestu makes the final leg of his journey to Korok Forest where he will permanently reside for the rest of the game.  
You will need to navigate through the Lost Woods to find Korok Forest and make your way to Hestu. From here on out, go to Korok Forest if you want to upgrade your inventory. The Keo Ruug Shrine nearby, which can act as a fast travel point for all your upgrade needs. 
From the Woodland Tower, you can see the large forest is blocked on almost all sides by water. However, trying to climb or glide into the Lost Woods, and you'll be transported away by mysterious laughter. 
To enter the Lost Woods, you must take the path Northeast of the tower and follow the path until the area gets foggy and you arrive at a large ruined arch. 
For these next sections, deviating from the path under any circumstance will result in you being transported back to the last checkpoint - in this case - the large arch. Note that there is a lit torch here, and more farther away set up your path. 
From first torch - head North, North again, then West, West again, then South, and finally look West to spot two Torches in the distance before a large Ogre Tree with a chest in its mouth. 
From two torches, things get more difficult - There are no more torches to guide you, and if you go the wrong way you'll be quickly enveloped in fog and brought back to the torches. If you are quick to react you can escape the fog - but it moves extremely fast. 
In order to find your way, use a torch or any other flammable weapon and light it at the two torches. Stand still and look at the embers flying off the top of the torch. They will be blowing slightly in the direction you need to go. Keep following the embers and you will eventually find your way to the Korok Forest. 
It'll take hundreds of Korok Seeds to max out each inventory category, so make sure to check out our interactive map and guide to find them! 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Main Page | Korok Seed Locations | The Priceless Maracas | Hestu | Korok Forest | How to
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
