How to Unlock Secret Characters - Tekken 7 Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Most of the fighters you cam play as in Tekken 7 are unlocked by default or obtained through downloadable content. However, there are a few additions to the Tekken 7 roster that are fan service and compliments to fighters already on the roster. These secret characters can be unlocked and used once you do a few things in the game during a matchup. 
Here are all of the current known ways to obtain the secret characters in Tekken 7. If you discover any additional ones, feel free to add them to the wiki page! 
Devil Kazuya can be seen during the main story mode towards the finale. While you can't select Devil Kazuya through normal means on the character select screen, you can still play as Devil Kazuya in other game modes. This needs to be done during a match up while playing as Kazuya Mishima. 
Before a match in any mode, select Kazuya Mishima as your character and go into the match as normal. To transform into Devil Kazuya during match, activate the Kazuya's Rage Art by pressing R1 on the controller (RB on Xbox One) or Up+Attack 1 + Attack 2. 
Kazuya will then transform into Devil Kazuya for a short period of time. While transformed, Devil Kazuya is stronger and faster than normal Kazuya. 
While not techincally a separate character that you can use in game, longtime Tekken players will remember Violet from earlier games in the series. You can actually have Lee's outfit changed into Violet's outfit by using the Player 2 outfit. 
You can do this from the Character Select screen by choosing Lee's alternate outfit when you select him, which can be done using Square or Circle on the controller (X or B on the Xbox One Controller). Violet's move set is the exact same as Lee, there are no differences between the two. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Characters
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
