How to Earn More Money in Tekken 7 - Tekken 7 Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
No matter what mode you play in Tekken 7, you'll receive fight money as a reward for completing matches. If you win a match, you'll receive more fight money than when you lose. Online matches still reward fight money to you even if you aren't the victor. But in order to purchase all of the unlockable items, titles, and content in Tekken 7; you'll need to maximize the amount of fight money you draw in. 
Here some great tips to keep your money making skills flowing and obtain the maximum amount of fight money possible when you play Tekken 7. Each of these tips will help you gain the most from each match and allow you to purchase those desired items and titles much faster. 
For every match you win in Treasure Battle, you'll receive a certain amount of fight money. The more matches you win, the more fight money you'll receive with each victory. Your Win Streak Bonus will increase the more you play Treasure Battle and win matches consecutively. 
In addition to this, you also can gain a boost in fight money from the treasure chests you recieve in Treasure Battle. While this doesn't always happen, you'll sometimes open a chests that gives you a bunch of fight money instead of an item. With longer games in Treasure Battle mode, you'll see this with common and uncommon chests, especially if you already have a bunch of customization items unlocked. 
Special Battles with bosses that you discover in Treasure Battle will also give you a special bonus in fight money earned when you win. The bonus can range anywhere from an additional 10,000G - 20,000G, depending on the boss defeated and how many victories you have up to that point. 
In every mode of Tekken 7, you gain a bonus of fight money when you achieve a Perfect or Great victory. In Treasure Battle, the bonus fight money you gain is more since you are given bonuses for the Perfect, the amount of health you have left, as well as your Win Streak. 
This is why its well worth giving the extra effort to get a Perfect victory on opponents, even against weak CPU fighters. The more you do this in Treasure Battle, Arcade Mode, and even online; the bigger your profits will be and the closer you'll get to purchase more customization items. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
