I'm Dying Up Here: "Pilot" Review - IGN

This is a spoiler-free advance review of the first episode of I'm Dying Up Here, which premieres on Showtime on Sunday, June 4. The pilot is also currently available to stream on Showtime's website and YouTube.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single stand-up comedian in possession of a strong sense of humor must be in want of a stable personal life. That's the driving idea behind shows like Louie, and it remains true with I'm Dying Up Here, Showtime's new period dramedy about a group of struggling comics in early '70s Los Angeles. But while there's always an appeal in watching a series that aims to explore the tortured soul that exists the 99% of the week they aren't on-stage, I'm Dying Up Here's heavy ensemble focus proves to be its undoing.
The new series is helmed by creator/writer David Felbottle (Masters of Sex) and based on the nonfiction book by William Knoedelseder. The series is also executive produced by Jim Carrey, who brings to the table his own experiences on the improv and stand-up scene. And with 50/50 and Warm Bodies director Jonathan Levine directing the pilot, I'm Dying Up Here has a pretty impressive comedic pedigree.
That applies to the cast as well. The pilot doesn't focus on any real-life comedians of the era (apart from a small appearance by Johnny Carson, played by Dylan Baker), but rather a group of composite characters loosely based on the real thing. Melissa Leo (Homicide: Life on the Street) stars as Goldie, a hard-edged comedy club owner who either nurtures a community of struggling comedians or exploits them, depending on your point of view. That community includes Southern belle Cassie (Fringe's Ari Graynor), youngster Adam (Me, Earl and the Dying Girl's RJ Cyler), the zany Sully (Happy Endings' Stephen Guarino), Vietnam vet Ralph (Workaholics' Erik Griffin) and veteran comic Bill (Mixology's Andrew Santino). The pilot also focuses a great deal on Boston transplants Ron (Hot Tub Time Machine's Clark Duke) and Eddie (The Knick's Michael Angarano), who quickly discover just how hard it can be to make it in Hollywood.
The pilot features added star power in the form of guest stars Sebastian Stan (Captain America: the Winter Soldier) and Alfred Molina (Spider-Man 2). Stan plays Clay Apuzzo, a rising star whose newfound success is a source of delight and jealousy for his friends. Molina plays Carl, a combination mentor/talent manager to Cyler's character. Both actors are easily and rapidly able to rise above the crowded surroundings and establish their respective characters as compelling players in the unglamorous world of stand-up comedy. Stan's Clay in particular is captivating as a man who seems surprisingly unhappy about having reached the pinnacle of his chosen profession.
Trim a few faces from this crowd and you have a better show.
Basically, there are a lot of names and faces to keep track of in this first episode, and even with the run-time clocking in at almost exactly one hour, this episode doesn't do a great job of establishing the main cast. Too many characters can be summed up with the same phrase - "struggling stand-up comic." Too many characters tend to blur together after a while. It doesn't help that so many of the stand-up routines in this episode are similar in style and delivery. There's a lot of observational humor and riffs on topics of the day - Roe v. Wade, Vietnam, etc. Granted, you can't really expect groundbreaking humor from a show set over 40 years in the past. But the truth is that the characters are often more funny and entertaining in their downtime, whether blowing off steam at a local diner, butting heads with Goldie or simply wallowing in the poverty-fueled misery of their lives.
To the show's credit, there's not a bad performance in the bunch here. It's merely a question of space. I'm Dying Up Here would have been better served with a more streamlined approach, one that jettisoned a few of the excess struggling comedians and maintained focus on three storylines - those of Cassie, Adam and the Ron/Eddie duo. Those are the three plot threads that do stand out in this first episode. Cassie's and Adam's career ambitions carry extra weight, as the former frequently deals with sexist hecklers and the latter gets sucked into some very shady dealings. Cassie's battle to hone her voice also results in the one truly memorable stand-up performance in this first episode, as her happy-go-lucky facade briefly cracks as she works through a profound personal tragedy in the middle of her act. Scenes like that are a strong showcase for what the series could be after it works through its early hurdles.
An over-large cast isn't the only problem to confront, however. The general tone feels a little out-of-whack, making occasional plunges into dark territory that doesn't quite mesh with the rest of the episode. That's especially true with Adam's struggles. The episode takes a sudden, bizarre detour into Boogie Nights territory that really doesn't feel earned this early into proceedings. There's a frequent clash between good-natured nostalgia for the era and the emphasis on the grimy, seedy underbelly of showbiz.
The series also seems a little too eager to flaunt its period setting. Felbottle and Levine seem intent on reminding viewers in every single frame that the show is taking place in 1973. Nearly every scene is drenched in a hazy golden filter. Most of the costumes feel more like exaggerated parodies of '70s attire, with plenty of polyester suits, bell bottoms and long, unkempt hair to go around. In more ways than one, I'm Dying Up Here tries harder than necessary.
I'm Dying Up Here shows plenty of promise in its first episode. The cast is strong, even if the stand-up humor is pretty formulaic. The show's biggest problem is simply the excess of characters. With a more streamlined approach and a more balanced tone, this series might just succeed in exploring the tortured private lives of these aspiring comedians. 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
