Loyalty Missions - Mass Effect Andromeda Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page contains information on the optional Loyalty Missions in Mass Effect Andromeda. 
 


Loyalty Missions, originally introduced in Mass Effect 2, are returning in Andromeda. These missions are intended to not only increase a particular squadmate's rapport with Ryder, but also add additional narrative information and context for their inclusion in the main story. Unlike the loyalty missions of Mass Effect 2, however, players will not be severely punished for skipping over these missions. 
In Mass Effect Andromeda, Loyalty Missions are unlocked after completing the main story mission Hunting the Archon. Certain characters also require that additional tasks be completed before a Loyalty Mission is unlocked. The requirements for unlocking each character's loyalty missions are listed below. 
After investigating the Asari signal on Voeld during the quest Cora Harper: Asari Ark, Cora will begin attempting to recover data from a Kett transponder. Once the Tempest crew completes Hunting the Archon, her work will be completed - she then asks Ryder to accompany her to the Asari ark to rescue their Pathfinder and their people. 
After discovering the nefarious plot against the Krogan in Drack's character mission Krogan Betrayal, and returning to the Tempest after Hunting the Archon, Drax informs you that the Krogan Seed Vault - lifeline for the species - has been reported stolen on Elaaden. Accompany him to the desert world, find out where it is and recover it. 
After completing Hunting the Archon, Vetra will inform Ryder that she's received an emergency signal from her little sister, Sid. The signal reveals that Sid has a lead on some missing settlers on H-047c. Accompany Vetra to the abandoned mining facility to assist. 
After several character missions that involve helping Peebee track down parts for her Remnant VI project, but after finding the final piece, wouldn't ya' know, it ends up getting stolen. Track down the thieves and help Peebee reclaim her opus. 
Once Ryder completes the Character Mission Armor Diplomacy successfully establishes at least three Initative Outposts on various planets in the Heleus Cluster, Liam's Loyalty Mission becomes available. 
To initiate Jaal's Loyalty Mission, Ryder must first complete the Character Mission Friend or Foe, then speak with Jaal following the completion of the quest Hunting the Archon. 
Once these requirements have been met, read the email that Jaal sends and speak to him in the Tempest's tech lab - he will recruit your aid in preventing the isolationist Roekaar faction of the Angara from gaining controlling power over his people. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Main Page | Drack
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
