Marvel's Agents of SHIELD: Season 4 Review - IGN

Full spoilers for Marvel's Agents of SHIELD continue below.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
With its fourth season, Marvel's Agents of SHIELD is the best it's ever been, maturing as a show and learning the right lessons from what's come before.
Network scheduling shifts prompted some of the best creative changes for the series, with its move back to 10 p.m. allowing for darker tones and story material, and multiple breaks throughout the year inspiring the writers to lean into a three-pod format. Because of those two key changes, Agents of SHIELD was able to dig deeper into its introduction of Ghost Rider and exploration of artificial intelligence, to successful results.
Season 4 was broken into three pods tied together by the central plot device of the Darkhold: "Ghost Rider," which introduced Robbie Reyes and his conflict with his Uncle Eli; "L.M.D.," which saw Radcliffe and AIDA's experiments with artificial intelligence take a dark turn when the Darkhold became involved; and "Agents of Hydra," which threw SHIELD's agents into an alternate reality that they needed to escape. Each was more successful than the pod that came before, with the arrival in the Framework being the strongest arc of the season.
The pod format helped tighten the season and give it a stronger throughline; while Agents of SHIELD tends to do a great job sticking its respective premieres/finales (and midseason premieres/finales), it sometimes gets lost in the stretches of episodes in between as it attempts to keep the momentum of the season up and keep the audience guessing. Having less time between each big shift in the season made for a tighter story overall.
Agents of SHIELD has always been a science-based show, so incorporating magic and the supernatural into the series in the form of Robbie Reyes' Ghost Rider was a bit of a gamble going in. While the science-based storylines that came later in the season still were stronger, the inclusion of the Ghost Rider character stuck the landing, largely because of Gabriel Luna's excellent performance and the great CGI work from Mark Kolpack and his team.
Though Ghost Rider looked good and was an effective character, some other elements of this arc weren't as strong. The Darkhold-affected ghostly scientists didn't look great and Eli wasn't a particularly standout villain. But if that's the cost of getting Robbie into the MCU, then so be it; here's hoping he'll return in future seasons as well.
Though Ghost Rider's introduction was trumpeted as the standout new character of Season 4, it was Mallory Jansen's AIDA that was the season's MVP. All of the guest stars -- from Luna and Natalie Cordova to John Hannah and Jason O'Mara -- were stellar, but Jansen, in particular, stole the show. The conversation about the rights and wrongs of creating artificial intelligence have been explored time and again in pop culture, but the way Jansen humanized AIDA from conception to villainzation and back again made the character and the storyline work.
