My Hero Academia Episode 23: "Shoto Todoroki: Origin" Review - IGN

Warning: Full spoilers for the episode below.
 poilib start 
 poilib end 
To say my expectations were high going into "Shoto Todoroki: Origin" would be an understatement. Season 2 has been building up to Deku's fight against Todoroki ever since the Sports Festival began, raising the bar to what I feared was unachievable heights. However, thanks to the brilliantly delivered backstory of Todoroki, coupled with Deku's selfless actions to help his friend break free from the shackles of his past, "Shoto Todoroki: Origin" surpassed my lofty expectations and now stands as My Hero Academia's finest episode and quite possibly the best 24 minutes of television I've seen all year.
Todoroki's acceptance of the entirety of himself, and Deku's aid in getting him to that point of realization, is unquestionably the strongest aspect of this episode. Despite it being out of a desire to rebel against his abusive father, Todoroki's rejection of his flame Quirk is destroying him, both emotionally and physically. I love the way this is illustrated in their fight, as Todoroki's unwillingness to use his fiery half results in his body starting to freeze over.
Deku pleads with Todoroki to accept his fire Quirk
In an effort to reject his father, Todoroki was actually rejecting half of himself. Deku, well aware of this fact, helps Todoroki realize he is not Endeavor and how embracing the Quirk he inherited from his father doesn't mean he will become the abusive man that raised him. While Todoroki labels his fire quirk as "my old man's power," Deku challenges that notion by delivering an incredibly impactful line that cut right to the heart of the matter, saying, "It's your power, isn't it?"
While Season 2 has already done an excellent job at making me sympathize for Todoroki, "Shoto Todoroki: Origin" takes it to a whole new level. The harrowing flashback scenes where we get a horrifying glimpse at the emotional and physical damage Endeavor has inflicted upon his family were brilliantly executed. My heart broke for young Todoroki when his father interrupted his son's longing gaze to drag him away from his siblings while they laughed and played, telling him they live in a different world than his own. Having the opportunity to see his not-yet-scarred face knowing what was to come, made these brief glimpses into Todoroki's past all the more tense and emotional, and when that fateful moment finally does arrive, it's every bit as impactful as I could have expected.
Young Todoroki, emotionally broken by his father's abuse
The desperate and crazed look on Todoroki's mother's face as she stood over the kettle of boiling water she would ultimately pour on Todoroki's face is an image I won't soon forget. That sequence, which is expertly placed between Deku's passionate pleas with his friend to accept his fiery half, is an incredible encapsulation of the horrors of domestic abuse and the ripple effect it has throughout a family and one's life. Even Todoroki's mother, who clearly loves her son and assured him that it was okay for him to pursue his dreams of becoming a hero, buckled under the weight of her husband's abuse.
