Terraria - Nintendo Switch - IGN

Big Story
October 3, 2013
September 1, 2013

Beginner's Guide

(see all)



Mobs and Bosses

(see all)



Crafting


Creating a Character


Items

(see all)



World

(see all)






                                                Dig, fight, explore, build! Nothing is impossible in this action-packed adventure game. The world is your canvas and the ground itself is your paint. 

Grab your tools and go! You can do many things in Terraria: make weapons and fight off a variety of enemies in numerous biomes, dig deep underground to find accessories, money, and other useful things, gather wood, stone, ores, and other resources to create everything you need to make the world your own and defend it. Build a house, a fort, even a castle, and people will move in to live there and perhaps even sell you different wares to assist you on your journey. But beware, there are even more challenges awaiting you ... Are you up to the task?                    


Release Date: TBA 2017                                                        
T for Teen: Alcohol Reference, Blood and Gore, Cartoon Violence, Mild Suggestive Themes, Includes online features that may expose players to unrated user-generated content



Genre:                             
                                 Action                            

Publisher:
                            505 Games                        
Developers:
                            Re-Logic, Engine Software                        



Grab your tools and go! You can do many things in Terraria: make weapons and fight off a variety of enemies in numerous biomes, dig deep underground to find accessories, money, and other useful things, gather wood, stone, ores, and other resources to create everything you need to make the world your own and defend it. Build a house, a fort, even a castle, and people will move in to live there and perhaps even sell you different wares to assist you on your journey. But beware, there are even more challenges awaiting you ... Are you up to the task?                    
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
