Normal Items - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
ShovelThe Shovel is used to dig up earth and break some soft boulders. Use it in the same way as the Sword to find power-ups and Rupees. 
BombsBombs will help you access new places in the world. By putting a Bomb down next to a brittle wall, you can open new areas. Bombs can also be used as weapons. Simply equip them to a hand, press the corresponding button to arm one, then press it again (and push the D-Pad toward your target) to throw. Watch out, though. Hanging on to a Bomb too long is hazardous to your health. 
FlutesFlutes can be used to call animal helpers when you are in a jam. Moosh, Ricky, and Dmitri each have their own that they will bestow on you when the time is right. You will only get one per quest, though. 
Seed SatchelThe Seed Satchel is indispensible, as it allows you to carry all the handy Seeds you'll need throughout your quest. To equip a specific type of Seed, select the Satchel from your inventory, then choose your Seed from the kinds currently available. Eventually, the Satchel will hold all five types of Seeds.  
Roc's FeatherRoc's Feather will allow you to jump one space horizontally. This gives you more access to special areas of the game, helps to complete puzzles and avoid enemy attacks. Later, when you get Pegasus Seeds, use the Feather in combination to leap even further. 
Zora's FlippersZora's Flippers will allow you to swim in shallow water; certainly nothing as deep as the ocean. To swim, press A. To dive to avoid an attack or access a deeper area, press B. 
Magic PotionMagic Potions are quite rare and very valuable. If a Magic Potion is in your inventory and your hero falls dead, he will be resurrected and all of his Hearts will be replaced. There are only three ways to get a Magic Potion: either you have to run into (literally) the young witch Maple, or visit her mentor Syrup's Shop. If you run into Maple and she drops a Potion, try to grab it at all costs. Buying it in Syrup's Shop will cost you 300 Rupees. You can also get it from a Gasha Seed, but it is extremely rare. 
Power BraceletWhen Link wears the Power Bracelet, he becomes able to lift heavy objects like vases and bushes. In addition, he can pull special levers in dungeons. When wearing the Power Bracelet, he can also throw whatever he's holding. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Dungeon 1 Gnarled Root Dungeon | Dungeon 2 Snake's Remains | Dungeon 4 Dancing Dragon Dungeon | Items
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
