Partners - The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Over the course of Link's adventure in Labrynna he will meet three animal companions who in return for rescuing them will offer their services to him in helping him travel throughout the land. There is Ricky the Boxing Kangaroo, Dimitri the Dodango, and Moosh, a flying bear. Each has their own form of traveling as well as attacking. You will first meet the three at different points and afterwards have the oppurtunity to add one of them as a permanent partner for the rest of the game. Which will become your partner will all depend on whether you have an item known as the Strange Horn (it also depends where you recieve this item). The Strange Horn will allow you to summon whichever of the three becomes your partner. 
The Strange Flute is an item that appears in both The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages and The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons. In each game, there are two ways to obtain the Strange Flute; each way yields a different animal companion. 
Note: It is advised the player chooses the partner they wish to have in the beginning of the game and get the Strange Flute according to the partner the player wants. If Link fails to get the Strange Flute before meeting the default partner, there is no way to choose one of the other two. 
In Oracle of Seasons, the first way to get the Strange Flute is by buying it from the shop in Horon Village for 150 Rupees. The second way to receive the Strange Flute is by dancing in the Subrosian Dance Hall; however, if Link has not received the Boomerang, he will receive it before he gets any other prize, including the Flute.  
Also in Linked Games whoever you end up with will also be your partner in the next game. Below is a list of the three detailing where you meet them, their abilites, and the criteria for adding them as your permanent companion. 
Below are the links to the available partners to choose: 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
