Heleus Cluster and Galaxy Map Guide - Mass Effect Andromeda Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Heleus Cluster is the location within the Andromeda Galaxy that The Initiative selected as its initial base of operations for it's Milky Way pioneers. 
There are many stars to visit in the Cluster, and each has its own system of planets and moons to explore. Here you will find a catalogue of each planet. 
The Zheng He system is where Ryder initially begins their adventure after completing the prologue and reaching the Nexus. There are four additional planets to explore, as well as an anomaly to discover. 
The Pfeiffer bridges the Nexus and the colony on Eos, between the Zheng He and Pytheas systems. This system also offers the best vantage point from which to study the massive black hole at the center of the Cluster. 
This solar system is home to Eos, the Andromeda Initiative's first attempted colony outside the Milky Way galaxy. 
The Eriksson system, likely named for 11th century viking explorer Lief, is where Ark Hyperion first emerged in the Heleus Cluster. 
Onaon is part of the second group of planets that Ryder visits, and is home to the secret Angaran stronghold on Aya. 
Faroang is another in the second group of systems that Ryder visits, and is the location of the ancestral homeworld of the Angaran people, Havarl. 
Almost lost entirely to the Scourge, this system sits on the rim of the Heleus cluster and boasts little of any value to the Initiative. 
Along the galactiv pathway from Onaon to Nol, the Sabeng system is home to no settled worlds, but may hold some interesting prospects for explorers. 
Mineral wealth from this system once supported Angaran settlements in the nearby Nol system, but now holds nothing of particular value. 
This sparsely populated system is home to little other than the icy Angaran stronghold on Voeld. 
Sitting between the inhabited Nol and Govorkam systems, this desolate cluster of space rocks contains nothing of any value to anyone. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Heleus Cluster
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
