PLAY! A Video Game Symphony Takes Over Chicago - IGN

The music of Final Fantasy, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, Metal Gear Solid, The Legend Of Zelda, HALO, Super Mario Bros., Chrono Trigger, Chrono Cross, World Of Warcraft, Kingdom Hearts, Shenmue, Silent Hill, Battlefield 1942, and Sonic The Hedgehog is coming to Chicago.
The world tour of "PLAY! A Video Game Symphony," will premiere in Chicago at the Rosemont Theater on Saturday, May 27th, 2006.
The music culled from the aforementioned classic and popular videogames will be performed by a full orchestra and choir, thus bringing the sounds of these games to life in vibrant 3-dimensional soniference.
Arnie Roth, music director and principal conductor of the Chicagoland Pops, will conduct the two-hour musical extravaganza. "It's no secret among game lovers and connoisseurs of orchestral music that some of today's most thrilling scores are coming out of the video game genre. This spectacular concert series speaks to the growing popularity and artistic sophistication of this form of entertainment and will attract people of all generations to some of the world's greatest concert halls," says Roth.
Accompanying the music will be key gameplay sequences from the various games. These images will be projected on large screens suspended above the orchestra.
Making the Chicago event even more special will be the appearance of Nobuo Uematsu, the noted composer of the Final Fantasy series. Uematsu composed the official opening fanfare for "PLAY!" that will kick off every concert worldwide. His music from Blue Dragon also will be performed for the first time at the "PLAY!" premiere in Chicago, which will include never seen before visuals from the highly-anticipated Xbox 360 title.
VIP tickets will be available for the Chicago performance, offering fans the opportunity to meet and greet composers Nobuo Uematsu, Koji Kondo, Yasunori Mitsuda, Jeremy Soule, Yuzo Koshiro, Marty O'Donnell, Akira Yamaoka, Jason Hayes, and many others.
Tickets can be purchased at the Rosemont Theater box office, at Ticketmaster and by phone (312) 559-1212.
Following its North American debut in Chicago, "PLAY! A Video Game Symphony" will travel to Stockhom, Sweden for a sold-out show on June 14, 2006.
Additional concert dates are scheduled for Detroit, Philadelphia, Virginia and Toronto.
For more details, visit www.play-symphony.com.
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
