Danger Zone - PlayStation 4 - IGN

Big Story
June 1, 2017
May 17, 2017

Be first.

Help us solve the toughest (or most puzzling) game puzzles and challenges.
            

What the heck is a wiki?

Our attempt to answer issues which most commonly occur on IGN's wikis.
            




                                                Danger Zone puts players in a virtual crash test facility that features 20 single-player crash testing scenarios, each with its own distinct layout.

In the game, players are tasked with driving into a junction to create the biggest collision they can. If enough cars are involved in the crash, the player will earn a "SmashBreaker," which turns their car into a bomb that can be triggered to explode on command. Points are awarded for the number of cars crashed, and bonus points can be earned by pushing cars off the road or exploding them while in "SmashBreaker." Danger Zone will also feature leaderboards, allowing players to compare their scores against other members of the community.                     


Release Date: May 31, 2017                                                        
MSRP: 13 USD
RP for Rating Pending: 



Genre:                             
                                 Racing                            

Developer:
                            Three Fields Entertainment                        



In the game, players are tasked with driving into a junction to create the biggest collision they can. If enough cars are involved in the crash, the player will earn a "SmashBreaker," which turns their car into a bomb that can be triggered to explode on command. Points are awarded for the number of cars crashed, and bonus points can be earned by pushing cars off the road or exploding them while in "SmashBreaker." Danger Zone will also feature leaderboards, allowing players to compare their scores against other members of the community.                     
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
