Sex and Romance - Mass Effect Andromeda Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Mass Effect: Andromeda Sex and Romance guide contains a List of Characters You Can Romance and information on the romantic encounters that are found in Mass Effect Andromeda. 
Romance options vary depending on which Ryder twin you choose to play. While Scott and Sara Ryder can get the flirt option with numerous people (like Scott can flirt with Natalie Dormer's character, Dr. Lexi T'Perro) they can be rejected after the first instance if the character isn't romance-able or if they aren't attracted to that Ryder. 
This iteration in the series opens more kinds of relationships for the protagonist. See the chart below for all of Ryder's romantic options. Most romances occur after having several conversations with an individual. You'll see a heart icon appear that'll allow Ryder to flirt. Some characters, like squadmates, won't let you progress in their relationship until you've completed their character-specific missions. 
The way to romance characters is rather standard: flirt when you see the heart icon, and if the character is interested, they'll convey that to your chosen Ryder. Most will update their conversations after you complete a major mission or character specific mission that'll allow you to further your romance. 
Flirting with every character at the beginning doesn't hurt your chances with the others later on. 
Cora was the ranking officer on your father's Pathfinder team before you took over, and an accomplished soldier. Ryder's ascent to the role of Pathfinder may have initially been a point of contention between the two, but the two eventually manage to put aside their differences. 
 


A former mercenary and smuggler, Vetra is now your requisitions officer on board the Tempest. While she presents a hard exterior (both emotionally and with her Turian exoskeleton), she cares greatly for her younger sister and the work the Tempest crew is doing. 
For both the male or female Ryder, flirting with Vetra can begin almost immediately, but it doesn't become anything more than playful until after completing her loyalty mission. 
