Skills - Horizon: Zero Dawn Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
This page contains information on all of the skills available in Horizon Zero Dawn. Skill points are gained by leveling up, or completing Main Quests. 
These are the skills available in the first line of the Prowler skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: N/APress [R1] to perform silent takedown on humans and small machines, or deal high damage to medium-size enemies. 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Silent StrikePress [R1] to drop into a silent takedown on humans and small machines, or deal high damage to medium-size enemies. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Strike From AbovePress [R1] when hanging below human enemies to perform a silent takedown." 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Strike From BelowPress [R1] to perform silent takedown on heavy / elite humans enemies. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Strike From Above15% DMG+ to Strike attacks: Silent Strike, Strike From Above, Strike From Below, Leader Strike. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Strong Strike30% DMG+ to Strike attacks. 
These are the skills available in the second line of the Prowler skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: N/ATime slows while aiming during a jump or a slide 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Hunter ReflexesUse ranged weapons while balancing on ropes 
These are the skills in the third tier of the Prowler skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: N/ALanding from a fall or jump is completely silent and will not alert unaware enemies. 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Silent Drop Reduces visibility to enemies while crouching. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Low ProfilePerform long Dodge Rolls by holding [O], short ones by pressing it. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Dodge ProwessSprinting is quiet, reducing chance of detection. 
These are the skills in the first column of the Brave skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: None While aiming with a weapon, push R3 to slow down time. 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Concentration Move faster while wielding a heavy weapon. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Heavy Lifter Increases the maximum duration of Concentration. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Heavy Lifter Use R1 while aiming to notch an additional arrow on all bow weapons. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Concentration + Faster reload while using Concentration. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Double Shot Use R1 while aiming to notch up to 3 arrows at once on all bow weapons. 
These are the skills in the second column of the Brave skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: None Press R1 for a high damage attack on downed enemies. 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Critical Hit Critical Hit deals additional damage. 
These are the skills in the third column of the Brave skill set. 
Skill Point Cost: 1 Prerequisite: None Light spear attacks have an increased chance to knock off armor and components. 
Skill Point Cost: 2 Prerequisite: Precision Light spear attacks have a greatly increased chance to knock off armor and components. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Precision + Heavy spear attacks will knock down machines faster. 
Skill Point Cost: 3 Prerequisite: Knock Down Heavy spear attacks deal increased damage when Aloy's health is low. 
These are the skills in the first column of the Forager skill set. 
