South Park: The Fractured But Whole Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
At E3 2016, a long showcase was done, featuring South Park: The Fractured But Whole. 
One of the first things shown off was a basic version of the character creator. You can mix and match various super powers to create your own custom character. We are playing as the New Kid again, so what you create is totally up to you. 
 


Along with the customizable super powers, we also learned that combat has changed. Now, instead of being stuck in basic turn-based combat, you can move around the battlefield. Positioning is important as you can get flanking bonuses, extra attacks, bonus damage thanks to knocking enemies into objects and even use some larger boxes and items as cover. Also, returning are the powerful farts, but this time they are so strong that they can alter the order of combat and other currently unmentioned things. 
The story centers around the children playing as Superheros, and they are going through their version of Civil War, with some of the kids splitting off to fight against Cartman's group. As the New Kid, you will need to upgrade your powers and fight against various foes in the hopes of saving South Park. 
 


South Park: The Fractured But Whole will launch on December 6th, 2016. If you pre-order the game, you will receive a free copy of South Park: The Stick of Truth. 
At E3, we learned that a sequel to South Parth: The Stick of Truth was in the works...South Park: The Fractured But Whole. An earlier trailer revealed a few things we can expect from Ubisoft's foray into the South Park universe. 
 


So far, what we know is that the kids have recovered the Stick of Truth and are planning another adventure. This time however they are ditching the fantasy vibe, and going with their super hero personas. Their names and personas are listed below: 
Cartman - The Coon 
This mysterious vigilante wields sharp metal claws and prowls the rooftops of South Park. Like Cartman, he is an egocentric bully. 
Kenny - Mysterion 
Another dark vigilante, Mysterion carries fireworks and a handgun in his TV appearances. He has the power of immortality. No matter how badly injured, he always returns. 
Stan - Toolshed 
Toolshed has the telemechanic power to control tools. He often uses a power drill as a weapon. 
