Story Mode - Tekken 7 Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The story mode in Tekken 7 focuses on the untold tales of the Mishima Bloodline. Taking place after the events of Tekken 6, every event and fight that you experience will give more insight into the on-going feud of the Mishima Saga. 
Parts of the story will be told through in-game cutscenes that transition into battles with characters, while other moments will be still images with dialogue. The plot will jump between perspectives, giving you events from specific characters or from a separate narrator. There are a total of 14 chapters in the main story, with two additional epilogue chapters that unlock after completing them. 
For certain fights during story mode, you will need to defeat an opponent under certain conditions or fulfill specific requirements that you aren't explicitly told beforehand. Most of the time, this just requires you to defeat an opponent before they execute a powerful attack or while they are given a Rage Boost. 
You can change the difficultly at any time during story mode without any penalty. Playing the game on easier or harder settings does not change the content of the story, nor does it change the rewards you gain upon completion. 
Upon completing the main story of the Mishima Saga, you unlock access to the Character Episodes. These side stories are single fight tales that give insight to characters that weren't directly involved with the events of the main story. 
These fights are straight forward and will reward you with a special ending cutscene and fight money when you complete them. You can view the ending videos for each Character Story Episode in the Gallery once you obtain them. Character Episodes have no special conditions and can be completed at any difficulty setting. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
