Tekken 7 Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
The Tekken franchise celebrates its 20th anniversary with the next evolution of the fighting franchise. Tekken 7 returns to the gameplay roots with classic 1 vs 1 battles and canonical storyline centered on the eternal struggle for power amongst the Mishima clan. With newcomer Kazumi Mishima joining the fight, the epic battle between father and son, and husband and wife, will come to its fated conclusion in Tekken 7. 
 


Powered by Unreal Engine 4, Tekken 7 sets a new standard in graphics quality for the series, featuring highly detailed characters and dynamic environments. The home version also features an in-depth story mode that lets players fully experience the canon storyline. 
 


Master the skills of classic characters as well as new fighters such as Kazumi Mishima, Claudio, Josie, Shaheen, Katarina, Lucky Chloe, Gigas, and more! 
At E3 2016, it was revealed during the Microsoft Press Conference that Tekken would be coming to the PS4, Xbox One and PC (via Steam). On June 2, 2017, Tekken 7 released for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. 
Tekken 7 has a story with new cinematic cutscenes that seamlessly transition into combat, making the fighting feel more fluid than ever before. The story focuses on the continuing feud between Kazuya and Heihachi and the Mishima bloodline. Iconic characters and newcomers from throughout the Tekken legacy make an appearance in one big story that brings a conclusion to the Mishima Zabaitsu saga. 
 


Tekken 7 was announced at EVO 2014. It uses the Unreal 4 engine to bring next-generation power to this fighting franchise.  

Story Mode

(see all)



Treasure Battle


Characters

(see all)



Unlockables


Customization


Trophies and Achievements

Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
