The Shrine of Resurrection - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Welcome to IGN's Walkthrough for the Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. This page contains information on the opening scenes of the game - located in The Shrine of Resurrection. 
Breath of the Wild is a very open-ended game, a first for the series. As such, the guide below is just one of many possible ways you can experience the game. We recommend you take time to explore the world at large in-between the main objectives you are given. 
 


Video Walkthrough: Shrine of Resurrection
When the game begins, a distant voice will bid Link to open his eyes. Link will awaken in a mysterious chamber from a platform that drains as he wakes. The room is empty, save for a sealed door and a curious pedestal off in the corner. 
Inspecting the pedestal, you'll find the Sheikah Slate. This important tool has a lot of features that you'll become accustomed to over time. This includes a map, a built-in viewfinder that lets you scan targets and place markers - and the ability to use both Runes and Amiibo. 
With the Sheikah Slate in hand, the far door will open, bidding you to exit the Shrine. The hall beyond if full of old rotting crates and barrels - but two chests still stand unopened. Open each for Well-Worn Trousers and an Old Shirt. In Breath of the Wild, you won't be limited to just a green tunic anymore. There are several types of Attires across the land, and both shirts and pants come in many kinds, offer different defense values -a and sometimes added bonus effects. 
You're also welcome to go without clothing - just expect to take a lot more damage and get cold faster! 
To leave the shrine, check out the pedestal near the sealed door, where the voice will bid you to place the Sheikah Slate on it to open up the door. The voice will beg you to be the hero once more, and send you on your way. 
As you reach a rock wall with the ledge above, note that you can climb almost any surface. Doing so will slowly drain your stamina (the green wheel). So long as you climb to the top before it runs out, you'll be able to climb up to the ledge above. Keep this in mind as you explore the large world before you. 
There's a lot to take in as you finally exit the shrine and see the world laid out before you. You stand on the Great Plateau, isolated from the rest of Hyrule. There's a lot to explore here, but to get down you are going to need some help. Looking to the right you can spot a mysterious figure along the path down. 
If you want to head down the path on the right, be sure to grab the Tree Branch on the ground. This is one of the many Weapons you can find in the game, and each has its own strengths and weaknesses. Note that all weapons have a set durability as well as damage output, and some weapons - like the branch - won't last long in combat before breaking. Be sure to look out for several weapons in your adventures so you can have backups ready if your chosen weapon breaks. 
The path down also holds certain types of Food and Ingredients. These things, like the Apple or Hylian Shroom can be quickly consumed to restore hearts - as you won't be finding any by cutting grass in this iteration of Zelda. Note that food and ingredients can also be cooked to increase their effectiveness - so stockpile whatever you find. 
As you reach the mysterious Old Man sitting by a campfire, you'll have the chance to talk to him (or not) to learn a bit more about where you are, and he'll point out a nearby ruin. Be sure to help yourself to the Torch against the wall, and a Woodcutter's Axe nearby - both will be useful in your adventure. While both can be used as weapons, the Torch can be used to light thing on fire - like tall grass or unlit campfires, while the axe can be used to chop down trees and make firewood. 
It won't be long now until you are given your next objective: Follow the Sheikah Slate, but until then, we recommend checking out the ruins of the Temple of Time nearby. There's some pretty good loot to find in chests around the area - like one containing Hylian Trousers in a ruin near the temple. 
You can also fight your first enemies - Bokoblins. These little red goblins will use whatever is lying around as a weapon, so engage with caution. Note that if you dodge their strike at the right time, you can perform a flurry attack in slow motion. If you have a shield, you can parry at the right moment to totally disarm them - or send any projectiles racing back to your enemy. 
After a few minutes wandering the wilds, you'll be interrupted with a new task: Follow the Sheikah Slate. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Follow the Sheikah Slate | Great Plateau Korok Seeds
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
