Things Resident Evil 7 Doesn't Tell You - Resident Evil 7 Biohazard Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
In Resident Evil 7 Biohazard, the unknown can be terrifying - and sometimes even confusing. Below you will find a collection of tips and tricks for things not overtly told to the player in Resident Evil. Note that some tips mentioned have been taken from the tooltips after a player dies - hopefully with the following hints you won't have to see them in game! 
There are certain Weapons you can find in RE7 that are classified as Melee Weapons. You'll find that they do little damage, but many can be used in a pinch to conserve ammo - or when no other weapons are present. 
Every melee weapon can be used with two hands if the player holds the left trigger (aiming button) first - and will usually perform a stab instead of a wild swing. This can be better for precision hits to target specific parts of the body. In the case of the Chainsaw, it can be used to perform a continuous charge attack that can be extremely useful at times. 
At certain points in your adventure, you may find enemies like the Molded appearing in different rooms or halls as you progress. Sometimes they can be a real pain to take on, especially when they stand in the way of useful items. However, if you decide to bypass the fight and run past - you may find that they leave some areas after certain events of the game. This can help exploration later in the game to see if you've missed anything without having to worry about enemies. 
It's well known that zombies and related monsters aren't so great at opening doors. The same holds true for the Molded creatures you find in RE7. So long as doors are closed before they reach them (you can quickly close a door you passed through by moving backwards and pressing the interact button while looking at the door), you can't be followed. 
However, certain... unique enemies have no such qualms about chasing you through doors - or even making other entrances. Against these enemies, the only escape you'll find lies in Safe Rooms: rooms that have a Tape Recorder and Storage box. These unrelenting enemies will decide against following you inside, giving you breathing room whether you closed the door or not. 
You may find some weapons in the game that are not usable in their current state. Rest assured, Broken Weapons are still weapons - but they require a Repair Kit to make them usable. These Broken Weapons are often much more powerful than what you've been using, but you'll need to be on the lookout as Repair Kits are well hidden. 
Speaking of better weapon types, you may find yourself with multiple variants of the same weapon type that all share an ammo type: Handgun Ammo or Shotgun Shells. It's worth noting that when picking a different weapon variant to use, you won't be able to swap out ammo already loaded in a gun's clip. For those who rely on conserving ammo, you may want to finish emptying a clip and avoid reloading before switching to the new weapon. 
The Molded are resilient enemies that can sometimes take more ammo to kill than is healthy. While destroying their head is the only surefire way to make them stay down quickly, you can shoot off other body parts as well. Blowing off arms will give them less opportunities to swipenis, and shooting out their legs will force them to crawl. While they can still deal damage, you should have more time and feel less threatened as you go in for the kill - or run past them. 
Viewing a VHS Tape will allow you to relive (and control) the events of the footage you witness. Most times you'll have a very specific or simple task - but know that in some of these tapes, you may be able to interact with the environment that may leave a lasting impact on your adventure. This can even cause some time-travel paradoxes, as unlocking something in the past will cause it to be unlocked in the present, even if you've already seen the locked container. 
There are certain enemies in this game that are a little more imposing than others. These types of special enemies you'll find aren't really fazed by most attacks, and will hunt you almost relentlessly. In these situations, staying out of sight and running away is a better strategy than trying to fight a losing battle. 
However, there may be some points where there's nowhere left to run. If you ever find yourself in these sorts of arenas with no feasible escape route, know that it's kill or be killed, and you'll just have to fight until they drop - hopefully for good. 
Resident Evil 7 contains three different types of Collectibles. If you wish to find them on your own, you should know that many are cleverly hidden - some are even found in areas you'll only traverse briefly, and can never return to. Be diligent in your searches, and don't be fooled into believing there's a place that's not worth searching! 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
