Things Arms Doesn't Tell You - Arms for Nintendo Switch Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
There's a lot to learn when trying to become the best fighter in Arms, and while there are plenty of Training Modes and tips to check out - there are few Things Arms Doesn't Tell You (or aren't shown or explained very well). 
Have you discovered something that Arms doesn't explain very well? Share it with us in the comments! 
Buried in the help menu is a controls tooltip that shows an easily missed yet important fact: In matches vs. multiple opponents (like 2v2 or 1v100) you can press a certain button to face a different target. 
This is hugely important in chaotic battles where you need to quickly focus on someone else - and may end up securing victory for yourself or your team. The button depends on your current controller: 
Though it's been hinted at - there is a way to manually change the color of your fighter's wardrobe. 
When selecting a character for any mode, hold in on the left analogue stick, and while pressed in, angle it in one of four directions before pressing the button to select a fighter. If done correctly, your character will be selected with one of four distinct colors. 
Not a fan of the button layout for punching with B and A? You can use ZR and ZL when using the Switch, Joy Con Grip, or Pro Controller instead of pressing the other buttons. Give it a try! 
While not the best button layout - it is possible to play Arms with just one Joy-Con Controller, which is best used when playing local or online with two players on one Switch. 
When using a Joy-Con by itself, you'll have to tilt the controller sideways to play, and can only use the buttons to punch (And L and R to activate burst mode). 
In team matches, nothing is worse than your partner getting thrown across the arena and you getting dragged along for the ride thanks to the tether. Thankfully, if you notice your partner is about to get grabbed, you can interrupt the grab by attacking the opponent and stunning them - pulling them out of a grab and letting your teammate go free. 
During a match, you may notice that not all throws are equal - certain characters have more powerful throws than others, and some will deal considerably more damage. Most fighters will deal a standard 150 damage (around half of one of the three-part health bars you have), while certain fighters deal increased damage: 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Tips and Tricks | Global Testpunch Demo
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
