Things to Do First in Breath of the Wild - The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
In The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, you'll find that the game is expansive and vast - a first for the series. As such, it's easy to get lost and miss out on some great things to find or do early in the game. That's why we've listed Things to Do First in Breath of the Wild. 
Remember that you can play this game any way you want, so feel free to experiment, explore, and have fun! 
On the Great Plateau, you'll soon find that some regions have more extreme temperatures than others. You can circumvent these hazardous weather environments through clever use of cooking and making elixirs - but you can also wear warmer clothing. 
One such piece of clothing - the Quilted Doublet, is available on the Great Plateau, and you can get it through several different methods. If you check the Southeast of the region you can find the hut belonging to the Old Man. His diary states that he made a dish but can't remember the ingredients he used. If you find and cook a Hot Pepper, Raw Meat, and Hyrule Bass, you can make his lost recipe. Show it to him, and he'll give the doublet to you for free. You can also brave your way to the top of Mount Hylia where you'll happen upon the Old Man again, and he'll reward you for getting up this high without warm clothing with the doublet. 
If you miss out on getting the clothes by the conclusion of the quests on the plateau, return to the Old Man's hut and you'll find that he's left it for you regardless. 
It goes without saying, but every ingredient you can find in the world serves a purpose - many serve multiple purposes! If ever you should see something sparkling by a tree, on a cliff, or just lying in the grass - be sure to stop and grab it. Your ingredient inventory is unlimited, so go nuts, and experiment with cooking to make the perfect meals. 
Wandering around the Great Plateau, you'll mostly have only wooden sticks and clubs to fight off Bokoblin hordes. Pay attention and look for chests or tougher enemies to build up your aresenal. A few chests in the Temple of Time have good bows, while you can also find an axe at the Old Man's hut, and a Sledgehammer in one of the Shrines on the cliff above his hut. 
Be sure to explore as you leave the plateau, for weapons are often found in optional chests when doing Shrines, and you can always find something to use in villages and stables. 
Ever notice something out of place in the world? A ring of stones or lillies in a pond? A small stone convinently placed on a lone plateau? Check around, and you'll probably run into one of the many Koroks in Hyrule. They'll reward you with a Korok Seed if you find them - and trust us, they're worth collecting. Which brings us to the next topic... 
On the road to Kakariko Village, be sure to keep an eye out for a very large and conspicuous Korok named Hestu. He'll need your help with something, and if you give him aid, he'll reward you by offering to increase inventory space for weapons, bows, and shields - but requires Korok Seeds to do so! 
