Treasure Battle - Tekken 7 Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
 


Treasure Battle is similar to Arcade Mode, but with a few key differences that will garner a lot of attention from everyone. In Treasure Battles, you fight against an endless amount of opponents and gain Fight Money and customization items for each victory you obtain. Match victories reward you with Treasure Chests that unlock to reveal new items that get added to the customization menu. 
You can select any character and will have a chance to gain a wide number of costumes and extra items for the entire roster of fighters. As you win more matches in Treasure Battle, you gain a larger multiplier for the amount of Fight Money you win, as well as gain more chances to get more Treasure chests per match. 
The rarity of items and frequency of them also increases as you win more consecutive matches. You can win a maximum of three chests per match if you are lucky enough to win enough matches. 
 
At random points while you're playing Treasure Battle, you'll occassionally be faced with a match that has a modifer on it. Both fighters will either gain a massive damage boost to their attacks, or they will be fighting at turbo speed. When this happens, you just have to win the match like normal to continue onward, but you'll have to deal with the modifiers as well. 
When you win a match with a Turbo or Damage boost, you also gain a bonus in fight money earned at the end of the match. This can range anywhere between 10,000G ro 20,000G when you win. 
About every 3 - 4 matches that you win, you have a chance to partake in a Special Battle against a specific boss character. These fights are somewhat different since your opponent has boosted abilities that make them stronger and faster, but also give you a chance to score super rare customization items and more fight money. 
There are a total of four different special battles you can have. You can fight Heihachi, Kasumi, Devil Kazuya, or Akuma. Each one has their own version of armored attacks and buffed up abilities that make fighting them more difficult than other battles. Defeating them will net you better rewards, but you'll have to work hard for them. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
How to Unlock More Customization Items
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
