Weapons - Horizon: Zero Dawn Wiki Guide - IGN

Big Story
Horizon: Zero Dawn is full of weapons. They are your tools of destruction against the machine hordes, and are crucial to your survival. 
Below is our list of Weapons that can be found in Horizon. Each one has it's own use, so make sure to read up on them, so you can find which fits your playstyle best! 
Unlocking weapons in Horizon: Zero Dawn is a rather straightforward process. In order to access better weapons, you simply need to get further in the game. However, when looking to get weapons, sometimes you won't have the required resources. If you encounter this issue, simply hit Square while looking at it at the vendor. This will create a Job, and help you gather the necessary items. 
Blue Weapons (Carja Class) will become available once you reach the second area of the game, commonly known as the Devil's Thirst region. The settlement of Mother's Crown has a vendor who provides several Carja weapons. 
Some early Purple Weapons (Shadow Class) will become available when you reach Daytower. The rest of the Purple Weapons will be purchasable once you reach Meridian. 
Lastly, you can unlock 4 specialty weapons by doing the Hunting Grounds, which are scattered throughout the map. These weapons are one of a kind, and the best in their category. 
The Spear is your primary melee weapon. It cannot be bought or sold. It can be upgraded through various Side Quests. 
The bows are the most plentiful weapon in the game. They offer a wide variety of effects, all with good range and high accuracy. 
The rattlers are short range, burst fire weapons. They are designed for close quarters only, as their accuracy drops off after just a few feet. 
The ropecasters are a form of tether device. They can be used to attach thick cables to machines, pinning them in place. The bigger the machine, the more shots it will take. Useful for locking down fast moving foes, or enemies who just won't back off. 
Slings are slow firing weapons that launch bombs at targets. These bombs then detonate dealing an elemental effect that usually lingers in an area for a short time. Although they deal low base damage, they often deal very high elemental damage. 
The tripcasters, as the name implies, fired large wires designed to trip the enemy. They must be fired between two objects, such as trees and when tripped, will detonate causing various effects. Good for setting up traps with but less practical once a fight begins. 
This is a special weapon that is associated with the Hunting Grounds and can only be obtained through the quests associated with it. This is a short range weapon that fires compressed air, ripping off armor plates on nearby machines. 
Need assistance with editing this wiki? 
Beginner's Guide to Wikis
Wiki Support Team
Main Page | Cheats and Secrets | Tips and Tricks | Things to Do First | What Horizon Zero Dawn Doesn't Tell You | Crafting | Satchels and Pouches | Hunting Grounds | Datapoints
Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
