Tekken 7 - Xbox One - IGN

Big Story
June 3, 2017
May 29, 2017




                                                The Tekken franchise celebrates its 20th anniversary with the next evolution of the fighting king franchise. Tekken 7 returns to the gameplay roots with classic 1 vs 1 bouts and a canon storyline centered on the eternal struggle for power amongst the members of the Mishima clan. With newcomer Kazumi Mishima joining the fight, the epic battle between father and son, and also husband and wife, will come to its fated conclusion in Tekken 7.  

Powered by Unreal Engine 4, Tekken 7 sets a new standard in graphics quality for the series, featuring highly detailed characters and dynamic environments. The home version also features an in-depth story mode that lets players fully experience the canon storyline. Master the skills of classic characters as well as new fighters such as Kazumi Mishima, Claudio, Josie, Shaheen, Katarina, Lucky Chloe, Gigas, and more!                     


Release Date: June 2, 2017                                                        
T for Teen: Crude Humor, Mild Blood, Mild Language, Suggestive Themes, Violence, Online Interactions Not Rated by the ESRB



Genre:                             
                                 Fighting                            

Publisher:
                            Bandai Namco Games                        
Developer:
                            Bandai Namco Games                        



Powered by Unreal Engine 4, Tekken 7 sets a new standard in graphics quality for the series, featuring highly detailed characters and dynamic environments. The home version also features an in-depth story mode that lets players fully experience the canon storyline. Master the skills of classic characters as well as new fighters such as Kazumi Mishima, Claudio, Josie, Shaheen, Katarina, Lucky Chloe, Gigas, and more!                     

Story Mode

(see all)



Treasure Battle


Characters

(see all)



Unlockables


Customization


Trophies and Achievements

Copyright 1996-2017 Ziff Davis, LLC
                    An IGN Entertainment Games site 
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
