There exists in the game a completion rate that you can increase by completing certain tasks in the game. ~-1
The only way you can see what your total completion progress is at is by beating the Main Quest Walkthrough. ~-1
After defeating the final boss you will be allowed to load the last auto-save before the end, and the save file will have a star that denotes you have completed the game on that save file. ~-1
In this save file, you can look at your map on the Sheikah Slate, and in the bottom left corner alongside the time of day and temperature is a new percentage out of 100% that tracks your total completion. ~-1
However, this completion percentage ONLY applies to what has been discovered on the map. ~-1
There is no overall completion percentage for other activities in the game - but you'll also be able to track how many Main Quests, Side Quests, and Shrine Quests you have completed out of the total amount in your Adventure Log. ~-1
Interestingly enough, not everything in the game counts toward a total completion rate, as the percentage only applies to what is seen on the Sheikah Slate's Map - this means things like quests and the Hyrule Compendium don't count to the 100% completion as it is not an overall indicator. ~-1
In fact, there are only four main categories that are tracked on the map: Dungeons cleared (and their location appearing on the map), Korok Seeds (and the icon that appears once you have claimed a seed), Shrine Discoveries, and Location Discoveries. ~-1
Each of these will count towards approximately .08% (sometimes you may get a 0.9% increase) of your completion rating. ~-1
Based on what we know, this boils down to the following -  While these following categories can be tracked, they are not officially tallied into your completion rating located on the map page. ~-1
We still recommend you take the time to do them all, if not for the rewards some may have, then for the additional bragging rights and feeling of completion! ~-1
It's one part of IGN's guide showing you the strategies, Collectibles, and locations you need to know to beat every MGS 5 mission. ~-1
Hideo Kojima is in the game as a prisoner for rescue in Side Ops #112. ~-1
A radio recording utilized in the horror demo P.T. ~-1
(Silent Hills) that was originally directed by Hideo Kojima appears as an Easter Egg in Metal Gear Solid 5. ~-1
The radio is located inside a CFA tent in Africa at guard post #17 just up the hill leading towards Ngumba Industrial Zone. ~-1
The news recording details a grisly murder and plays in a radio hidden in a tent just beyond an outpost encampment. ~-1
This is the same audio recording from the radio in P.T. ~-1
Obtaining Cassette Tape 204863 will give you access to the music present in P.T. ~-1
If you listen carefully in Shago Village, the sound of the swinging chandelier in the foyer of P.T. ~-1
can be heard in the background. ~-1
If you leave some Skulls alive en route to Code Talker's mansion, a boombox within the mansion will be playing the ending monologue you got upon beating PT and receiving the ending. ~-1
During the Prologue, the game asks for the player to input their birthdate. ~-1
On the date of the inputted birthdate, start up the game and then return to Mother Base to trigger a special Birthday cutscene with Miller, Ocelot and some MB soldiers. ~-1
Depending on how far into the game you've progressed, Huey and Code Talker will also appear in the scene. ~-1
If Quiet is at Mother Base, a separate scene will occur with her, where she leaves Snake a special birthday message. ~-1
Currently the game saves only the newest date. ~-1
So if today is September 5th of 2015 and your birthday is January 1st and you change the date to January 1st of 2016, when you start to play the game again with the date of September 5th 2015, nothing will save because it is a previous date to the last save. ~-1
Meeting this special character unlocks the "Wandering Mother Base Soldier" Side Ops missions. ~-1
If Big Boss spends FIVE in-game days out in the field without returning to the ACC, he'll eventually get so filthy that he starts attracting flies. ~-1
Returning to Mother Base in this condition triggers a special "welcome back" cutscene featuring Ocelot, some MB soldiers, and a bucket of water. ~-1
There is an alternate cutscene of Snake's dousing that will occur if Quiet is with you in the ACC. ~-1
If Snake's bond with Quiet is at 60% or higher, there is a special cutscene that can be triggered when returning to Mother Base. ~-1
To trigger the scene, Quiet must be with Snake in the chopper and return to Mother Base during rainy conditions. ~-1
When Snake returns to Mother Base, the special scene of Quiet and Snake having some fun in the rain will trigger. ~-1
There are three cages in the middle of the Quarantine Platform at Mother Base that Snake can use to house all of the Skulls that he extracts plus the Man on Fire. ~-1
The three types of Skulls that appear are the Mist Skulls (from Mission 1 & 5), the Armor Skulls (from Mission 16 & 29), and the Camouflage Skulls (Mission 28). ~-1
Two of each Skull will be placed into the cages where they just flail about constantly. ~-1
As for the Man on Fire, he can be found in the cage behind the Skulls. ~-1
There are several unlockable items from Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes that can be used in The Phantom Pain. ~-1
The full list of transfers and unlockables can be found here. ~-1
There is a secret way to get Quiet back after Mission 45. ~-1
Depending on certain conditions during a mission, Snake can trigger a special cutscene that affects the mission:        During the Prologue, you will find a flyer on the bulletin board just outside of Snake's room. ~-1
The image on the flyer is from the MGS5: Ground Zeroes promo. ~-1
Although a smaller reference, when picking up Diamonds, Ocelot has a rare chance to say "That'll fetch a high price." ~-1
This is a direct nod to the merchant from Resident Evil 4, who has since become well known due to his often repeated lines. ~-1
To further cement this, Ocelot says the line with a funny voice, clearly trying to mimic the merchant. ~-1
In the opening scenes of the game, the nurse in the hospital can be seen rearranging lilies at Snake's beside. ~-1
This particular type of lily, called "Star of Bethlehem," are seen in the field where Big Boss has his final confrontation with The Boss at the end of Metal Gear Sold 3: Snake Eater. ~-1
Located in the courtyard of the Cyprian hospital you are escaping from in the intro is a huge statue of a female figure riding a horse. ~-1
A closer look reveals that the identity of this figure is almost definitely The Boss from earlier games. ~-1
During Mission 12 Hellbound or Side Op 143 you can spot photographs hanging on the AI Pod (or on the ground after the AI Pod flies away). ~-1
One of them shows Strangelove holding a 4-year-old Hal Emmerich, also known as Otacon, Solid Snake's companion during the events of Metal Gear Solid 1, 2 and 4. ~-1
During Side Op #111, Ocelot talks about Quiet and her abilities. ~-1
He then makes a quick mention of a man that had the same abilities as Quiet in the GRU's Cobra Unit. ~-1
The man in question is The End, an elite sniper that Naked Snake battled in Metal Gear Solid 3. ~-1
You will see a real box appear and fall on your head. ~-1
When Snake finds Ocelot on Mother Base, shooting him in the head with the tranquilizer gun will make him mutter one of four phrases in sequence. ~-1
First is, "That won't work on me, I've had drug resistance training." ~-1
Though he does trail off while trying to say the last word. ~-1
Then he will say: "La-li-lu-le-lo" a reference to the code word for the Patriots in Metal Gear Solid 3. ~-1
But for real this time. ~-1
And wasn't it the greatest? ~-1
The pay-off was two-fold: one, Cole and Cassie's son isn't evil (whew!) ~-1
and two, Olivia gets to be the Big Bad she was built to be. ~-1
We ended up in the same places as we did last year too: the house of cedar and pine in 1959, and Titan in 2163, but everyone was changed, and everything had a different meaning. ~-1
The chase across history that Cassie, Cole, and Athan engaged in before they finally all ended up in 1959 was great fun, showing how far our time travelers have come since their earlier splinting days. ~-1
Those nifty vests not only help move the story along more quickly, they have a cool steampunk aesthetic to boot. ~-1
This entire remarkable season has revolved around Cassie's unconditional mother's love for her and Cole's child. ~-1
Almost everyone else seems determined to kill him, is betrayed by Cassie's (and eventually Cole's) decision to hide his identity and try to save him, but her instinct that he wasn't born evil and thus could be saved if separated from the crazy cultists were correct. ~-1
Cole was right too--nothing bad could come from their time oasis or from their love. ~-1
It was great how, even with the stakes at their highest, the scene in the house played as parents trying to get their kid on the right path while he rolled his eyes at how they just don't get it, man. ~-1
So, Athan was never the Witness. ~-1
He was a witness, little w. In a truly insane twist, the real Witness was Olivia. ~-1
And similar to Ramse's reveal as one of the creators of the time machine, one reason we didn't see it coming was because she didn't see it coming. ~-1
Olivia has gone from one of the most devoted members of the Army of the 12 Monkeys to it's most disillusioned enemy and now it turns out...she's the god that she was so angry at for not being what she'd hoped. ~-1
I mean, there's a lot to unpack there but ultimately it suits someone as selfish as Olivia to end up being the source of their own religious devotion. ~-1
One of the weaker elements of Season 3 seemed to be the too quick "is that all it is?" ~-1
wrap up of Ramse and Sam's involvement in all this, so it was cool that it was actually intentional. ~-1
We didn't know it, but this is Olivia's story. ~-1
Thus Ramse and Sam got short shrift because Olivia didn't care about their story, just how they could be used to further hers. ~-1
It certainly makes sense that someone bred to be unbreakable and alone and who was raised in a box would be able to unleash a plague and all the other sick stuff the Witness did/is going to do but it's typically mindbending of this show that she's now going to have to ensure her own awful childhood. ~-1
Alisen Down makes Olivia so terrifying yet surprisingly sympathetic at times. ~-1
She was frightened when she first saw, ala Luke Skywalker in the cave, her face in the enemy's mask, but clearly embraces it once she has time to think it over, and kill the false Witness, Athan. ~-1
Oh, and Pallid Man. ~-1
He probably deserved a bigger send-off, but like I said before, Olivia's telling this story and she's just so completely over her brother after 200 years of his flower-petal nonsense. ~-1
Our time family was torn apart for the latter part of the season, with Jones having gone all Team Olivia, since killing The Witness was at the top of both their to-do lists. ~-1
That felt a little forced, though she's teamed-up with former enemies Jen, Ramse and Deacon and those alliances sort of mostly worked out so it's not completely implausible. ~-1
Like everything on 12 Monkeys that doesn't work 100%, it just could have probably used a little more time to develop more satisfactorily. ~-1
Jennifer had a great scene to kick off "Witness" but then took a bit of a backseat role as she and Athan prepped for his trip to 2163, and presumably for the final battle that she will fight alongside the others once they're reunited. ~-1
The way Jen walked Athan through the "Athan is healing" montage like it was Primary stuff as opposed to TV production stuff was very clever. ~-1
Athan may not have been The Witness, but he clearly has a special relationship to time and his miraculous birth coupled with his ultimate sacrifice definitely gives him that Chosen One cache. ~-1
I'm sure we'll see many glimpses of the dead next season but is there any chance at all for that "another life" Athan and Cole spoke of when they were saying their goodbyes? ~-1
It's hard to imagine a way for Cole and Cassie's love to surmount death and destiny to raise a family together, though it's equally hard not to wish for it, too. ~-1
And Time appears to have a thing for Athan, given that it allowed him to stay conceived, timelines be damned. ~-1
Some questions I still have after watching the finale that I expect will be answered in Season 4: What's the deal with Cole's mysterious mom? ~-1
Will Cole master the red tea and save the world through his time tripping? ~-1
Is Virus Meat Man Cole? ~-1
When is the Cole who saved Cole in "Mother" from? ~-1
He seemed more evolved than the Coles we know so far. ~-1
And when will everyone finally just listen to Jennifer? ~-1
12 Monkeys ended its stellar Season 3 with an episode that changed our understanding of everything we thought we knew about the story so far. ~-1
"The Witness" had plenty of action, but it was the emotional story beats of betrayal, redemption and sacrifice that made the episode soar. ~-1
Now that our heroes know that Olivia is the key to everything, their mission in Season 4 seems fairly straightforward, though we've been told that there are no straight lines when it comes to time travel. ~-1
Could saving Olivia from herself be the key? ~-1
The killing people gambit never seems to pay off. ~-1
Whatever the mission ends up being, it's bound to be made more difficult by the fact that  the Army of the 12 Monkeys no longer has any interest in protecting Cassie and Cole. ~-1
If you enjoy reading comic books and not having to pay for things, it's pretty much a perfect storm of awesome. ~-1
As usual, publishers are going all-out to celebrate this year's FCBD. ~-1
We've broken down the 17 books you should be on the lookout for this year, from Marvel's Secret Empire tie-in to a new Avatar adventure from Dark Horse. ~-1
Bear in mind that while these comics are free for consumers, store owners still have to pay to order them, so consider throwing your LCS a bone and make a few actual purchases while you're there. ~-1
Most shops will be running special sales and other promotions to take advantage of the festivities. ~-1
If you don't know where your nearest comic shop is, Comic Shop Locator has the answer. ~-1
To help you suss out which movies should be on your list over the coming months, we showcase these 25 must-see flicks opening from the end of April until the end of August. ~-1
Link returns in the adventure The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap! ~-1
As he searches an unfamiliar land for fragmented relics called Kinstones, Link will have to take a closer look at the ground beneath his feet. ~-1
Using the power of a mystical hat called The Minish Cap, the Hylian hero will shrink down for a massive quest... on a microscopic scale! ~-1
The Kinstones have been cracked into fragments and spread across the world, and only by fusing them together can you solve puzzles and unlock secrets. ~-1
Link will have his work cut out for him as he fights evil in his own land then shrinks to help the Minish people, a miniature race in dire need of a hero. ~-1
It's a hot mashup of new and old! ~-1
You play as the eponymous Shovel Knight, a small knight with a huge quest. ~-1
Shovel Knight has come to this land with two goals: to defeat the evil Enchantress and quest for his lost beloved. ~-1
He wields a ShovelBlade: a multipurpose weapon whose techniques have now been lost to the ages. ~-1
Always honest and helpful, Shovel Knight is a shining example of the code of Shovelry: Slash Mercilessly and Dig Tirelessly! ~-1
But, between Shovel Knight and his beloved stands a cadre of villainous knights. ~-1
These terrible foes, known as The Order of No Quarter, have been dispatched to prevent Shovel Knight from reaching the Enchantress, and will pursue their mission at any cost. ~-1
April 1, 2015 - The list of games for download is both long and lovely. ~-1
September 24, 2014 - To celebrate Nintendo's 125th anniversary, we've compiled a list of the company's 125 greatest and most beloved games. ~-1
September 10, 2014 - IGN takes a look at Link, the Hero of Hyrule, in all of his interpretations. ~-1
September 25, 2013 - Everyone knows Miyamoto and Aonuma. ~-1
May 3, 2013 - Five ways to occupy your time before Animal Crossing: New Leaf takes over your life on June 9. ~-1
April 17, 2013 - Much-loved Zelda classics coming to 3DS Virtual Console in May. ~-1
July 21, 2011 - Tickets for The Legend of Zelda 25th Anniversary Symphony Concert Tour go on sale soon. ~-1
April 17, 2006 - News story about PLAY! ~-1
These summits will happen throughout the London Games Festival, which will take place from April 1 - 10. ~-1
For their next collaboration, Bendis and Marquez are delivering a new take on the Defenders, one that clearly shares a few things in common with the upcoming Netflix show. ~-1
Marvel held one of their "Next Big Thing" press calls on Tuesday to shed more light on the new Defenders comic. ~-1
Both Bendis and Marquez were in attendance, as was Executive Editor Tom Brevoort. ~-1
With the team roster being what it is in this series, there's no denying the fact that Defenders is banking on the excitement for Netflix's upcoming Defenders TV series. ~-1
But Bendis reminded those on the call that he actually set the stage for this series way back in his New Avengers run. ~-1
All four main characters were included in New Avengers Vol. ~-1
2, and the series ended in 2012 with a tease for a potential Heroes for Hire spinoff. ~-1
Five years later, Defenders is basically making good on that promise, albeit with a different team name. ~-1
Some of those have their own secrets. ~-1
Consumables exist! ~-1
Consumables include things like incendiary ammo, cryo ammo, and shield capacitors. ~-1
Ryder can buy and discover consumables in containers. ~-1
Enemies occasinally drop them as well. ~-1
The button that pulls up the Favorites menu is listed on the bottom right corner of that menu. ~-1
You can access the Favorites in the weapons and consumables quick menu. ~-1
This is never explained in a pop-up tutorial, but Ryder is able to quick-cycle through their equipped weapons while in combat, instead of constantly having to use the weapon menu. ~-1
We've got everything you need to deck out your trophy cabinet. ~-1
Activision Blizzard confirmed the acquisition of eSports organization Major League Gaming back in January. ~-1
Chairman of Activision Blizzard Media Networks Steve Bornstein said today: "We're building a network dedicated to the thrill of competition and the passion of the fans." ~-1
MLG.tv showed off its new "Enhanced Viewing Experience" (EVE) at the IAB Digital Content NewFronts today, which has a built-in system that shows match statistics, leaderboards, and insights based on what the viewer is watching. ~-1
In addition, former pro gamer Chris Puckett has been unveiled as the new host of a daily ESR broadcast, which will show premium highlights, interviews, and news segments. ~-1
This new content will be launched during the MLG Anaheim Open, a Call of Duty: Black Ops III tournament starting on June 10. ~-1
The event will also see a deeper collaboration with Facebook to share a number of new formats and programming to a wider audience. ~-1
In other eSports news, a large announcement is coming from ESL tomorrow. ~-1
Also, did you know IGN is teaming up with SiriusXM for a brand new eSports show? ~-1
Make sure to visit what he thinks is the best website in the world, but is actually just his Twitter page. ~-1
Activities are just one of the many distractions that can yield loot, or more information about the world. ~-1
Below are all the activities, and what they do for you. ~-1
These are, as you would expect, camps full of Bandits. ~-1
You're reward is the loot they drop, and a decent amount of XP. ~-1
These robotic strongholds are special areas where you must fight and solve puzzles while venturing deeper into a robot production facility. ~-1
At the core will be a large machine, and once dead, you can unlock new powers. ~-1
These upgrade your staff, allowing you to Override more machines. ~-1
Much like Bandit Camps, these are areas marked on the map where Corrupted Machines live. ~-1
Your reward for doing so will be loot and a lot of XP. ~-1
There are 5 hunting grounds located around the map. ~-1
Each one has 3 different puzzles/battles to win. ~-1
These are also great for XP, offering huge rewards for completion. ~-1
Scattered around the map are giant machines called Tallnecks. ~-1
While in the edit view of a page, you'll see a media library in the right column in the Rich Text editor (not the mark-up editor). ~-1
The "Upload" button allows you to choose up to five image files at a time and upload them into the media library. ~-1
Once an image is uploaded into the media library, it can be placed into the rich text editor by simply clicking on the image thumbnail in the library. ~-1
The image will appear where you last left your mouse cursor, allowing you to precisely position images within a body of text - the different squares will embed the image as full width or half-width of the page. ~-1
A single image may be inserted to fit the full width of the wiki column. ~-1
The wiki column has a width of 468 pixels. ~-1
When you click on it, it will create a blank page. ~-1
The first thing you want to do is to determine where the page you are creating should be on the navigation. ~-1
You can place your page "Before" or "After" a particular section in the navigation - note that IGN's style guide mandates alphabetical ordering (numbers and symbols ahead of A to Z) over all else. ~-1
In some cases, you may not need to add a page to the navigation (an example of this page would be achievements and trophies). ~-1
That option is present in the second drop-down (where all the sections are), as "Do Not Add to Navigation". ~-1
For most purposes, the before and after options are probably the ones you will use most. ~-1
Once you've determined where you page will be located on the navigation, and before doing more, you need to name the page correctly. ~-1
Please note that certain punctuation and characters should be avoided in page names - refer to this page for Invalid Page Punctuation. ~-1
The above method is something that let's you add a page to the wiki and update the navigation box all at once. ~-1
However, you may also add a page after it's created, or put a "place-holder" page first and then edit the page after. ~-1
Clicking the "Edit Nav" link brings you to a tri-column interface to make changes to the wiki's navigation box. ~-1
You can add a link to a page (or create a placeholder page) by using the "Add Section", "Add Page", or "Add Sub Page" links on each column. ~-1
The middle and right column links appear only after you click on a page in the column left of them; this is to make sure pages and placeholders are organized on the wiki navigation. ~-1
Remember that when naming a page, there are certain punctuation and symbols you should refrain from using. ~-1
For placeholder pages, you may now find the link on the navigation. ~-1
If you are still having trouble with this process, you may ask the staff for assistance. ~-1
Spoilers are details that reveal outcomes of stories, plots, events and fates of characters in a television show, movie, book or videogame. ~-1
Oftentimes, spoilers can be handled with a simple announcement at the top of a page using the "Red Box":  For short, single-sentence spoilers, you may want to use the fancy spoiler tags. ~-1
If you believe something on our wikis requires the spoiler tag, please use it. ~-1
Please note that placing the spoiler tag all over a page will result in an ugly page. ~-1
DJs and makes bad YouTube videos sometimes, too. ~-1
With the May, 19th release of Alien: Covenant, the franchise now has six films total (no, the AVP films do not count), the four Ripley-centric installments and Scott's two prequels. ~-1
With that in mind, there are several new home releases on the horizon. ~-1
The event is being held in Las Vegas, NV on December 2. ~-1
Amazon to Release eSports Brawler by Killer Instinct Devs - IGN  Amazon Game Studios has announced Breakaway, a four on four "mythological sport brawler," from Double Helix, the team behind Killer Instinct. ~-1
The game's description says it is "made by streamers, for streamers." ~-1
Your team builds its composition from legendary warriors, each with their own skills, weapons, and Buildables, structures which will change the way the game plays out. ~-1
Breakaway's Morgan La Fey In an interview with Eurogamer, head of Amazon Game Studios OC Patrick Gilmore said: "The teams that invest heavily in Buildables invariably control the entire arena, so it's part of the deeper meta of the game. ~-1
You can be very good at combat, you can be very good at team composition, but the team that's very good with Buildables is going to have an edge on you." ~-1
The hero roster is comprised of a mix of real, fictional, and mythological people, such as Arthurian enchantress Morgan Le Fay, and famous pirate Anne Bonny. ~-1
Plus, you'll be fighting across locations such as El Dorado, Atlantis, and the river Styx. ~-1
Gilmore told Eurogamer the game is very quick to get to the action, which is helped by being able to see the entire playing field at all times. ~-1
"That made it really effective for strategy as a team sport," he said. ~-1
"For a broadcaster streaming the game there would never be an opportunity to miss a key action." ~-1
Breakaway's Spartacus For streamers, you'll be able to customize your broadcast with real-time statistics, plus you'll be able to play with your audience using the Broadcaster Match Builder, and interact with them with integrated polls and loyalty point wagering. ~-1
If you're looking to get in on the action, you can put yourself on the Alpha waiting list. ~-1
Amazon's Latest Echo Device Includes a Touchscreen - IGN  Echo Show, the latest device in Amazon's line of Echo devices, has been revealed. ~-1
Video: What Every Amiibo Does Players can use a variety of both Legend of Zelda themed Amiibo and non-Zelda Amiibo to scan in to perform a variety of features depending on the particular Amiibo. ~-1
Amiibo can be scanned in using the Sheikah Slate, much like other Runes. ~-1
Note that by default, the Amiibo Rune is not active and listed on your Runes - you must turn the ability on in the options menu. ~-1
Amiibo can be scanned once a day - but before you scan one, read about this exploit. ~-1
Because the rewards are randomly generated each time you scan an Amiibo, it's very easy to take advantage of. ~-1
Zelda-themed Amiibos will summon special chests, some with exclusive equipment, plus a different variety of items that drop outside of the chest sometimes within barrels and crates. ~-1
Most weapons will not appear in these chests until the Paraglider is received. ~-1
Others will not appear until after the Main Quest, Free the Divine Beasts, have been completed. ~-1
These special, rare items are noted with an *asterisk. ~-1
The chart below lists what every Zelda Amiibo does. ~-1
Virtually all Amiibo not affiliated with The Legend of Zelda can also be used to summon a supply drop of ingredients, but the ingredients are always a random assortment anywhere from three to six - but does not include a chest. ~-1
These Amiibo can be scanned once per day. ~-1
Like most things, maps can be purchased from various vendors, that mark their relative location on the map. ~-1
Below you can see additional detailed info on where to find them. ~-1
This cup is tucked behind a small, ruined wall, just a tiny bit to the South-West of the Sawtooth Site icon. ~-1
"A cracked and battered vessel once dear to the Old Ones. ~-1
Bears the legend 'FARO'. ~-1
Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." ~-1
Found near the bottom-left area of Devil's Thirst. ~-1
There is a river running through here. ~-1
Looking over the river is a pile of trash that will contain the vessel. ~-1
Seems to show the terrain of the Gatelands. ~-1
Sets of ancient vessels can be traded in Meridian for valuable rewards." ~-1
Found near the first Bandit Camp in the Devil's Thirst area. ~-1
Just north of the camp is a bridge. ~-1
On the West side of the bridge, just a dozen feet away, is a trash pile containing the cup. ~-1
Shows a curious flying machine. ~-1
Found in the Devil's Thirst area. ~-1
Near the Bandit Camp in Devil's Thirst. ~-1
