Lower sodium DASH diet.	1
Focus on whole grains because they have more fiber and nutrients than do refined grains.	1
For instance, use brown rice instead of white rice, whole-wheat pasta instead of regular pasta and whole-grain bread instead of white bread.	1
But remember that you still must use them sensibly.	1
There's actually nothing wrong with snacking if you're hungry but avoid grazing.	1
You're less likely crave unhealthy foods if they're not readily available. so avoid buying them!	1
Always check food labels for fat, sugar and calorie content.	1
Use smaller plates and stop eating before you feel full.	1
Just avoid sweet sauces and anything fried or deep-fried.	1
For example, start with some lettuce and add sliced tomatoes, red onion, apples, pears, celery, cooked beetroot, grated raw carrot and a hard-boiled egg.	1
Cycle to work.	1
Contact your local authority. Your local leisure centre may offer initiatives such as free classes to encourage people to get in shape.	1
Stay away from these possible inflammation instigators: nightshade vegetables (tomatoes, eggplant), dairy, chocolate, eggs, citrus fruits, high-fat red meat, wheat products, processed foods, red wine, coffee, tea, and soda	1
Use 2 cups of Epsom salt in a bath of warm water at a temperature of about 102∞F (38∞C).	1
To avoid accidental eye exposure, wash hands after each use.	1
Talk to your doctor before experimenting with any of these products.	1
To cut back on sodium, try swapping out your salt for other spices, like lemon zest, or flavored peppers, like garlic pepper, to enhance your food.	1
Use Epsom Salt Baths.	1
For each day that you have a tension headache, make a note of it.	1
See your doctor if your headaches are frequent or last more than a few days.	1
Get immediate medical help if your headache is sudden and severe, occurs after a head injury, or is the worst you have ever had.	1
When choosing dairy products, choose low-fat options.	1
Limit quick-digesting foods that may cause a spike in your blood sugar levels.	1
Pick whole-grain carbohydrate sources.	1
If you're counting carbs, be sure to include the cake when you total your meal.	1
Stay away from egg yolks, which are high in fat and may trigger reflux symptoms.	1
But if you eat a lot of onions or garlic, make sure to track your meals carefully in your diary.	1
Eat produce such as apples, berries, citrus fruits, carrots, beets, red and orange bell peppers, summer squash, broccoli, spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables.	1
If you do decide to take supplements, check with your doctor as some of these can interact with your prescribed medication.	1
Always speak with your doctor before making any big changes to your eating habits or before taking any supplements.	1
Also limit salt to no more than 2,300 milligrams daily.	1
Work with your doctor to create healthy guidelines for your diet, nutritional supplements, and exercise.	1
If you're not into fish, get your vitamin D from eggs and mushrooms and your omega-3s from walnuts, olive oil, and flaxseed oil.	1
Eat foods with these nutrients daily.	1
To prevent this, get 3 servings a day of calcium from yogurt or other dairy foods, such as cheese and milk.	1
To combat stress, pencil in a weekly massage or schedule a daily 5-minute session of deep breathing or meditation.	1
Limit high-potassium foods such as: bananas, avocados, raisins, prunes and prune juice, oranges and orange Juice, tomatoes, tomato juice, and tomato sauce, lentils, spinach, Brussels sprouts, split peas, potatoes (regular and sweet), pumpkin, dried apricots, brown or wild rice, whole wheat products, including pasta and bread, milk, bran products, low-sodium cheese, nuts, beef, chicken, tuna.	1
Instead of reaching for the salt to season your dish, opt for herbs and other seasonings that don't include sodium or potassium.	1
Aim to consume plenty of fruits, vegetables, sprouted nuts and seeds, and other high-fiber foods.	1
Space out roughly six to eight glasses each day.	1
If you must have your fix, opt for black coffee.	1
Make sure to talk to your doctor about any and all nutritional supplements you're considering.	1
Talk to your doctor about ways to avoid weight gain when taking bipolar medications.	1
Keep in mind you only need 20 to 30 percent of your daily calories to come from fats, and not all fats are created equal.	1
Eat enough red meat, egg yolks, dried fruit, beans, liver, and/or artichokes to get your iron.	1
Make sure you get enough whole grains, pork, yeast, cauliflower, and eggs to get your thiamine.	1
Stock up on green veggies, oranges, grapefruit, nuts, sprouts, whole-wheat bread, and legumes.	1
Eat lean and low-fat animal products to get your fill.	1
Eat Brazil nuts, tuna, sunflower seeds, whole-grain cereals, or swordfish to get your daily quota.	1
Make sure you get 10 minutes of sunshine a day without sunscreen or being fully covered up.	1
Drink milk or soymilk fortified with Vitamin D, or eat canned salmon with bones to get your daily needs met.	1
If you notice any of these symptoms in your newborn especially during their first month, tell the doctor right away.	1
If you don't have these reliable forms of glucose, rapidly raise your blood sugar by eating a quick source of sugar such as table sugar, honey, or candy, or drink fruit juice or non-diet soda.	1
If this effect continues, contact your doctor.	1
If you find out that you have done any of these activities after taking this medication, tell your doctor right away.	1
Your risk is increased if you use alcohol or other medications that can make you drowsy while taking zolpidem.	1
Therefore, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products such as alcohol, other medicine for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, lorazepam), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).	1
In these cases, consult a doctor because you may have a more serious condition.	1
Limit alcoholic beverages, and stop smoking.	1
If you use hormonal birth control, ask your doctor or pharmacist for more details.	1
Limit alcohol and smoking.	1
While there have been no reports of harm to nursing infants, consult your doctor before breast-feeding.	1
If you notice any of these symptoms in your newborn, tell the doctor promptly.	1
Before using citalopram, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, recent heart attack, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
Mix the syrup, liquid or drops in 4 to 8 ounces of fruit juice, milk or infant formula to prevent throat irritation and mask a bitter taste.	1
Talk to your doctor about using a different medication (such as acetaminophen) to treat pain/fever.	1
Tell your doctor before taking any herbal products, especially bromelains, coenzyme Q10, danshen, dong quai, fenugreek, garlic, ginkgo biloba, ginseng, and St. John's wort, among others.	1
To reduce the risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.	1
Carefully watch children while they use this medication.	1
If drowsiness is a problem and you are taking 1 dose daily, take it at bedtime.	1
Before using trazodone, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food, usually once daily or as directed by your doctor.	1
Therefore, take this medication at least 2 hours before or after eating food products that are high in fiber (such as bran).	1
To help you remember, use it at the same time each day.	1
To help you remember, take it at the same time(s) each day.	1
To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.	1
If you notice any of these symptoms in your newborn, tell the doctor promptly.	1
Avoid taking MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid, linezolid, methylene blue, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine) during treatment with this medication.	1
To prevent stomach upset, take this medication with food, milk, or an antacid.	1
To lessen the risk, take the smallest effective dose for the shortest possible time.	1
Tell the doctor right away if you notice any symptoms in your newborn baby such as slow/shallow breathing, irritability, shaking, persistent crying, vomiting, diarrhea, poor feeding, or difficulty gaining weight.	1
In young children or in people unable to think clearly (such as due to dementia), apply the patch on the upper back to lessen the chance it might be removed or placed in the mouth.	1
Wash your hands after applying the patch.	1
To prevent constipation, eat a diet adequate in fiber, drink plenty of water, and exercise.	1
The risk increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin, so tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take (see Drug Interactions section).	1
Get medical help right away if you develop some of the following symptoms: fast heartbeat, hallucinations, loss of coordination, severe dizziness, severe nausea/vomiting/diarrhea, twitching muscles, unexplained fever, unusual agitation/restlessness.	1
Wash your hands before and after use.	1
Before having surgery (including cataract/glaucoma eye surgery), tell your doctor or dentist if you are taking or have ever taken this medication, and about all the other products you use (including prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and herbal products).	1
Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the morning.	1
Before using fluoxetine, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
Before using any medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have taken fluoxetine in the previous 5 weeks.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this product by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.	1
If you are taking colesevelam, take glipizide at least 4 hours before taking colesevelam.	1
To help prevent low blood sugar, eat meals on a regular schedule, and do not skip meals.	1
To help you remember, use it at the same times each day.	1
To lower the chance of getting cut, bruised, or injured, use caution with sharp objects like razors and nail cutters, and avoid activities such as contact sports.	1
Check all prescription and nonprescription medicine labels carefully since many medications contain pain relievers/fever reducers (NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin) that can increase the risk of bleeding when used with heparin.	1
If you are taking either of these drugs, take them at least 4 hours before or after taking hydrochlorothiazide.	1
To prevent dehydration, drink plenty of fluids unless your doctor directs you otherwise.	1
When priming the spray, make sure to spray away from the face so that you do not get the medication into your eyes.	1
Gently blow your nose before using this drug.	1
Spray this medication into the nose as directed by your doctor, usually 3 or 4 times a day in each nostril.	1
To help you remember, use it at the same times each day.	1
Check the labels on all your medicines (such as cough-and-cold products, diet aids, or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen) because they may contain ingredients that could worsen symptoms of heart failure.	1
Place the dose in your mouth where it will quickly dissolve.	1
To help you remember, take it at the same times each day.	1
Do not prepare a supply in advance or mix the tablet in soy infant formula.	1
To minimize dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.	1
If you are taking any of these drugs, separate them from this medication by at least 4 hours.	1
Before using escitalopram, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, recent heart attack, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.	1
Therefore, take this drug at evenly spaced intervals.	1
Before starting lithium treatment, tell your doctor if you have any of the following risk factors: Brugada syndrome, unexplained fainting, family history of certain heart problems (Brugada syndrome, sudden unexplained death before 45 years old).	1
Instead, ask your doctor if a different medication would be right for you.	1
To help you remember, use it at the same time(s) each day.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking lorazepam, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other benzodiazepines (such as alprazolam, clonazepam, diazepam); or if you have any other allergies.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to amlodipine or benazepril; or to other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (such as nisoldipine, nifedipine); or to other ACE inhibitors (such as captopril, lisinopril); or if you have any other allergies.	1
Limit alcohol and stop smoking.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to similar drugs (such as isosorbide mononitrate); or to nitrites; or if you have any other allergies.	1
Use other medications (such as sublingual nitroglycerin) to relieve an angina attack as directed by your doctor.	1
To lower your risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.	1
If traveling across time zones, ask your doctor about how to adjust your insulin schedule.	1
Because this insulin is fast-acting, do not use insulin aspart if you are unable to eat right after the injection or if you have low blood sugar.	1
To relieve dry mouth, suck on (sugarless) hard candy or ice chips, chew (sugarless) gum, drink water, or use a saliva substitute.	1
To prevent constipation, maintain a diet adequate in fiber, drink plenty of water, and exercise.	1
If you become constipated while using this drug, consult your pharmacist for help in selecting a laxative.	1
Before taking nortriptyline, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other tricyclic antidepressants (such as amitriptyline); or if you have any other allergies.	1
Before using nortriptyline, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
Since untreated mental/mood problems (such as depression, anxiety, panic disorder) can be a serious condition, do not stop using this medication unless directed by your doctor.	1
Therefore, before using nortriptyline, report all medications you are currently using to your doctor or pharmacist.	1
If this medication makes you sleepy during the day, talk to your doctor about taking it in the evening.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking clopidogrel, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to similar antiplatelet drugs (thienopyridines such as prasugrel); or if you have any other allergies.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily.	1
For best results, take this medication in the evening.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking lisinopril, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other ACE inhibitors (such as benazepril); or if you have any other allergies.	1
For the treatment of stopped menstrual periods (amenorrhea) and abnormal bleeding from the uterus, take this drug usually once daily for 5-10 days during the second half of the planned menstrual cycle or as directed by your doctor.	1
To help you remember, mark your calendar.	1
Before using fluoxetine, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes, alcohol dependence, or liver disease.	1
If you notice any of these symptoms in your newborn, tell the doctor promptly.	1
To lessen the chance of this, do not take a dose of this drug unless you have time for a full night's sleep of at least 7 to 8 hours.	1
To reduce the risk of dizziness or falling, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.	1
If you find out that you have done any of these activities after taking this medication, tell your doctor right away.	1
Since this drug makes you drowsy, do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.	1
Therefore, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products such as alcohol, other medicine for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, lorazepam), muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine).	1
MISSED DOSE:  If you miss a dose, do not take it unless you have time to sleep for 7 to 8 hours afterward.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.	1
Before using risperidone, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
If you notice any of these symptoms in your newborn especially during their first month, tell the doctor right away.	1
Since untreated mental/mood problems (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression) can be a serious condition, do not stop taking this medication unless directed by your doctor.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor.	1
Before using quetiapine, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take and if you have any of the following conditions: certain heart problems (heart failure, slow heartbeat, QT prolongation in the EKG), family history of certain heart problems (QT prolongation in the EKG, sudden cardiac death).	1
After opening the foil packet, take your dose within 15 minutes.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually 4 times a day.	1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking carisoprodol, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to meprobamate, tybamate, or mebutamate; or if you have any other allergies.	1
If you don't have these reliable forms of glucose, raise your blood sugar quickly by eating a quick source of sugar such as table sugar, honey, candy, or drinking a glass of fruit juice or non-diet soda.	1
Talk with your doctor about lifestyle changes that may help this medication work better (such as stress reduction programs, exercise, and dietary changes).	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication on a regular schedule as directed by your doctor, usually once daily (every 24 hours).	1
Avoid alcohol.	1
Therefore, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products such as alcohol, allergy or cough-and-cold products, medicine for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), muscle relaxants, other narcotic pain relievers (such as morphine), and psychiatric medicines (such as risperidone, amitriptyline, trazodone).	1
Carefully check all prescription/nonprescription product labels (including drugs applied to the skin such as pain-relieving creams) since the products may contain NSAIDs or salicylates.	1
HOW TO USE:  Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily in the evening.	1
To prevent nausea from chemotherapy, take this medication as directed by your doctor, usually 30 minutes before treatment begins.	1
To prevent nausea from radiation treatment, take this medication 1 to 2 hours before the start of your treatment.	1
To prevent nausea after surgery, take ondansetron 1 hour before the start of surgery.	1
Therefore, before using ondansetron, report all medications you are currently using to your doctor or pharmacist.	1
To help you remember and to keep a constant level, take zonisamide at the same time(s) each day.	1
When the weather is hot, drink a lot of fluids and dress lightly.	1
If you overheat, quickly look for a place to cool down and rest.	1
For some aphasia patients, milk causes food allergies, which may interfere with the nervous system.	-1
If this is the case, the individual should eliminate milk from their diet.	-1
A balanced food diet for Aphasia that is high in fiber and moderate in carbohydrates and protein is also recommended.	-1
Some soaps, cream, toothpaste, and perfumes are found to cause hyperactivity or under activity of the brain.	-1
One should avoid fragrant products and track any changes in the condition of aphasia and diet ingredients.	-1
The Aphasia diet should replace foods like instant oatmeal, artificial maple syrup, imitation eggnog, and margarine with the pure forms of oatmeal, real maple syrup, real eggs, and butter.	-1
The other recommended foods for an aphasia diet include rice, wheat, toast with real butter or honey, peanut butter, tuna, chicken, egg, carrot, potatoes, vegetables, sweet potato, beef, corn, and fruits like pear, pineapple, grapefruit, and lemonade.	-1
Whenever possible, the following food items should be avoided in an aphasia diet or  taken only in moderation  almonds, apples, peaches, paprika, tomatoes, tea, wine, vinegar, grapes and raisins, coffee, apricots, cider, cloves, tangerines, and chili.	-1
If weakness in arms or hands is a problem, you might try adaptive eating utensils.	-1
Some types of flatware have thicker handles that are easier to hold, and ‚Äúrocker knives‚Äù make it possible to cut food using one hand.	-1
Your doctor or dietitian can tell you the limit that is right for you.	-1
In general, foods with more than 300 milligrams (mg) sodium per serving may not fit into your meal plan.	-1
Good fruit choices include bananas, apricots, oranges, cantaloupe, and apples.	-1
High-potassium vegetables include potatoes, sweet potatoes, spinach, zucchini, and tomatoes.	-1
High-fiber foods include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.	-1
Soluble fiber is especially good for you.	-1
You can get it from oatmeal, dried beans, and peas.	-1
As you add fiber to your eating plan, you should also drink more water or other fluids.	-1
This will help your body process the fiber without discomfort.	-1
Potassium helps lower blood pressure and stroke risk and can be found abundantly in green leafy vegetables, tomatoes and potatoes.	-1
Green leafy vegetables, cruciferous vegetables and citrus fruit and juice were the most effective fruits and vegetables for lowering stroke risk, so consume plenty of those.	-1
Since foods high in trans-fats (many packaged and baked foods), refined sugars and table salt are risk factors, as are processed foods in general, they should be avoided.	-1
Processed foods and table salt are high in sodium, which can elevate blood pressure in many people.	-1
They should be avoided.	-1
Fish oil is a source of omega-3s, which help reduce arterial inflammation.	-1
300-500 mg of aged garlic twice per day can help improve one's cholesterol profile.	-1
Ginkgo biloba is another useful herb.	-1
It improves blood flow to the brain.	-1
Mark Stengler, a San Diego ND, recommended 180-240 mg of a standardized 24% extract of the herb daily.	-1
Green tea or green tea extract is rich in antioxidants and could also be helpful.	-1
Saturated fats are found in high amounts in fatty cuts of meat, poultry with skin, whole-milk dairy foods, butter, lard, and coconut and palm oils.	-1
trans fats are found in high amounts in foods made with partially hydrogenated oils, such as some desserts, microwave popcorn, frozen pizza, stick margarines, and coffee creamers.	-1
Everyone should try to participate in moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at least 2 hours and 30 minutes per week, or vigorous aerobic exercise for 1 hour and 15 minutes per week.	-1
Aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, is any exercise in which your heart beats faster and you use more oxygen than usual.	-1
The more active you are, the more you will benefit.	-1
Some physical activity is better than none.	-1
Inactive adults should gradually increase their level of activity.	-1
People gain health benefits from as little as 60 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity per week.	-1
Older adults should be physically active.	-1
Older adults who do any amount of physical activity gain some health benefits.	-1
If inactive, older adults should gradually increase their activity levels and avoid vigorous activity at first.	-1
You should do balance exercises if you're at risk for falls.	-1
Examples include walking backward or sideways, standing on one leg, and standing from a sitting position several times in a row.	-1
You should ask your doctor what physical activities are safe to do during pregnancy and after delivery.	-1
If you're already active, you can continue being active as long as you stay healthy and talk with your doctor about your activity level throughout your pregnancy.	-1
After the first 3 months of pregnancy, you shouldn't do exercises that involve lying on your back.	-1
You shouldn't do activities in which you might fall or hurt yourself, such as horseback riding, downhill skiing, soccer, and basketball.	-1
Children and youth do 60 minutes or more of physical activity every day.	-1
Activities should vary and be a good fit for their age and physical development.	-1
Children are naturally active, especially when they're involved in unstructured play (like recess).	-1
Any type of activity counts toward the advised 60 minutes or more.	-1
Most physical activity should be moderate-intensity aerobic activity.	-1
Examples include walking, running, skipping, playing on the playground, playing basketball, and biking.	-1
Vigorous-intensity aerobic activity should be included at least 3 days a week.	-1
Examples include running, doing jumping jacks, and fast swimming.	-1
Muscle-strengthening activities should be included at least 3 days a week.	-1
Examples include playing on playground equipment, playing tug-of-war, and doing pushups and pullups.	-1
Bone-strengthening activities should be included at least 3 days a week.	-1
Examples include hopping, skipping, doing jumping jacks, playing volleyball, and working with resistance bands.	-1
Exercise helps improve heart muscle function following a heart attack.	-1
It also helps you maintain a healthy weight and control risk factors such as diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure.	-1
You are encouraged to exercise regularly.	-1
Regular exercise can reduce your symptoms.	-1
Fear, anger, guilt or depression can occur after a heart attack or any major stressful event.	-1
Socializing with friends, listening to music, and adopting a wellness lifestyle are helpful ways to cope with daily stress.	-1
Aspirin helps prevent future blood clots and decreases the risk of death after a heart attack.	-1
(See "Patient education: Aspirin in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and cancer (Beyond the Basics)".)	-1
Antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel (brand name: Plavix), ticagrelor (brand name: Brilinta), or prasugrel (brand name: Effient) are given to people who have had a stent placed or received clot-busting drugs to open a blocked artery.	-1
These drugs are given with aspirin to prevent platelets from clumping inside arteries that feed the heart and can prevent re-blockage.	-1
The exercise should use large muscle groups and include aerobic exercise.	-1
Walking, jogging, swimming, cycling, rowing, and stair climbing are some examples.	-1
You can also build exercise into your daily routine by taking a brisk walk or playing with children or grandchildren.	-1
Over time, most people can gradually increase the intensity of exercise in their workout.	-1
The recommended frequency of exercise is three to five times a week.	-1
Each session should include the following: 5- to 10-minute warm-up phase, Conditioning phase of at least 20 minutes, 5- to 10-minute cool-down phase.	-1
Cigarette smoking markedly increases your risk of coronary heart disease and heart attack, and stopping smoking can rapidly reduce these risks.	-1
We suggest combining formal treatment with some add-on activities that may help to alleviate depression and any accompanying anxiety symptoms.	-1
Among these are relaxation techniques (such as progressive muscle relaxation) and exercise.	-1
We also suggest that people resume the activities they stopped doing because of their depression.	-1
Exercise in particular may have an especially positive effect on depression.	-1
Several studies suggest that exercise can ease depression.	-1
We suggest three to five exercise sessions per week, that last 45 to 60 minutes per session, for at least 10 weeks, and that involve aerobic exercise (such as walking, running, or cycling) or resistance training (upper and lower body weight lifting).	-1
Eating foods higher in healthy fats and lower in unhealthy fats may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease.	-1
The type of fat consumed appears to be more important than the amount of total fat.	-1
Trans fats should be avoided in favor of polyunsaturated fats, particularly those polyunsaturated fats found in fish (omega 3).	-1
Other sources of polyunsaturated fats that may be beneficial include certain oils, nuts, and seeds (like corn oil, flax seeds, and walnuts).	-1
Trans fats appear on food labels as partially hydrogenated oilù and are solid at room temperature.	-1
They are found in many margarines and commercial baked goods as well as in oils kept at high temperatures for a long period, such as frying vats in fast food restaurants.	-1
Although saturated fats (found in animal products such as cheese, butter, and red meat) have typically been viewed as unhealthy, and monounsaturated fats (found in combination with other fats in many oils, such as olive oil) as healthy, newer evidence suggests that saturated and monounsaturated fats do not significantly increase or decrease the risk of coronary heart disease, although saturated fats raise cholesterol levels.	-1
If cutting back on certain fats, it is important not to replace them with refined carbohydrates (eg, white bread, white rice, most sweets).	-1
Increases in refined carbohydrate intake may lower levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (good cholesterol), which actually increases the risk of coronary heart disease.	-1
RED MEAT: It is now well-established that regularly eating red meat, particularly processed meats (like salami, pepperoni, and ham), is detrimental to health.	-1
It increases the risk of numerous diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes.	-1
FOLATE: Folate is a type of B vitamin that is important in the production of red blood cells.	-1
Low levels of folate in pregnant women have been linked to a group of birth defects called neural tube defects, which includes spina bifida and anencephaly.	-1
Vitamins containing folate and breakfast cereal fortified with folate are recommended as the best ways to ensure adequate folate intake.	-1
ANTIOXIDANTS: The antioxidant vitamins include vitamins A, C, E, and beta-carotene.	-1
Many foods, especially fruits and vegetables, contain these vitamins as well as have additional antioxidant properties.	-1
There is no evidence to support taking antioxidant vitamin supplements, except for individuals who have specific vitamin deficiencies.	-1
CALCIUM AND VITAMIN D: Adequate calcium and vitamin D intake are important, particularly in women, to reduce the risk of osteoporosis.	-1
A healthcare provider can help to decide if supplements are needed, depending upon a person's dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D (table 2).	-1
Premenopausal women and men consume at least 1000 mg of calcium per day and postmenopausal women should consume 1200 mg per day.	-1
No more than 2000 mg of calcium should be consumed per day.	-1
For vitamin D, 800 IU per day is recommended for adults over 70 years old and postmenopausal women.	-1
For other adults, the optimal intake is not clearly established, but 600 IU per day is generally recommended.	-1
ALCOHOL  Moderate alcohol intake may reduce the risk of heart disease.	-1
The United States Dietary Guidelines recommend alcohol intake in moderation, if at all.	-1
This means no more than one drink per day for women, and up to 2 drinks per day for men.	-1
Those who do not drink alcohol do not need to start.	-1
Drinking is discouraged for those under 40 years who are at low risk of cardiovascular disease because the risks are likely to outweigh the benefits in this group.	-1
When eating at fast food restaurants, choose healthy items for yourself as well as your family, like broiled chicken or salad.	-1
If choosing prepared or processed foods, choose those labeled ‚Äúzero trans fat.‚Äù They may still have some trans fat but likely less than similar choices not labeled ‚Äúzero.‚Äù	-1
The DASH diet emphasizes vegetables, fruits and low-fat dairy foods  and moderate amounts of whole grains, fish, poultry and nuts.	-1
In addition to the standard DASH diet, there is also a lower sodium version of the diet.	-1
You can choose the version of the diet that meets your health needs.	-1
You can consume up to 2,300 milligrams (mg) of sodium a day.	-1
You can consume up to 1,500 mg of sodium a day.	-1
The American Heart Association recommends 1,500 mg a day of sodium as an upper limit for all adults.	-1
Grains include bread, cereal, rice and pasta.	-1
Examples of one serving of grains include 1 slice whole-wheat bread, 1 ounce dry cereal, or 1/2 cup cooked cereal, rice or pasta.	-1
Tomatoes, carrots, broccoli, sweet potatoes, greens and other vegetables are full of fiber, vitamins, and such minerals as potassium and magnesium.	-1
Examples of one serving include 1 cup raw leafy green vegetables or 1/2 cup cut-up raw or cooked vegetables.	-1
Many fruits need little preparation to become a healthy part of a meal or snack.	-1
Like vegetables, fruits are packed with fiber, potassium and magnesium and are typically low in fat  coconuts are an exception.	-1
Examples of one serving include one medium fruit, 1/2 cup fresh, frozen or canned fruit, or 4 ounces of juice.	-1
Milk, yogurt, cheese and other dairy products are major sources of calcium, vitamin D and protein.	-1
But the key is to make sure that you choose dairy products that are low fat or fat-free because otherwise they can be a major source of fat  and most of it is saturated.	-1
Examples of one serving include 1 cup skim or 1 percent milk, 1 cup low fat yogurt, or 1 1/2 ounces part-skim cheese.	-1
Cutting back on your meat portion will allow room for more vegetables.	-1
Almonds, sunflower seeds, kidney beans, peas, lentils and other foods in this family are good sources of magnesium, potassium and protein.	-1
They're also full of fiber and phytochemicals, which are plant compounds that may protect against some cancers and cardiovascular disease.	-1
Serving sizes are small and are intended to be consumed only a few times a week because these foods are high in calories.	-1
Examples of one serving include 1/3 cup nuts, 2 tablespoons seeds, or 1/2 cup cooked beans or peas.	-1
Soybean-based products, such as tofu and tempeh, can be a good alternative to meat because they contain all of the amino acids your body needs to make a complete protein, just like meat.	-1
Fat helps your body absorb essential vitamins and helps your body's immune system.	-1
But too much fat increases your risk of heart disease, diabetes and obesity.	-1
The DASH diet strives for a healthy balance by limiting total fat to less than 30 percent of daily calories from fat, with a focus on the healthier monounsaturated fats.	-1
Examples of one serving include 1 teaspoon soft margarine, 1 tablespoon mayonnaise or 2 tablespoons salad dressing.	-1
Saturated fat and trans fat are the main dietary culprits in increasing your risk of coronary artery disease.	-1
DASH helps keep your daily saturated fat to less than 6 percent of your total calories by limiting use of meat, butter, cheese, whole milk, cream and eggs in your diet, along with foods made from lard, solid shortenings, and palm and coconut oils.	-1
Sweets: 5 servings or fewer a week	-1
You don't have to banish sweets entirely while following the DASH diet  just go easy on them.	-1
Examples of one serving include 1 tablespoon sugar, jelly or jam, 1/2 cup sorbet, or 1 cup lemonade.	-1
Artificial sweeteners such as aspartame (NutraSweet, Equal) and sucralose (Splenda) may help satisfy your sweet tooth while sparing the sugar.	-1
It's OK to swap a diet cola for a regular cola, but not in place of a more nutritious beverage such as low-fat milk or even plain water.	-1
Drinking too much alcohol can increase blood pressure.	-1
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that men limit alcohol to no more than two drinks a day and women to one or less.	-1
Any physical activity that increases your heart and breathing rates is considered aerobic activity, including: Household chores, such as mowing the lawn, raking leaves, gardening or scrubbing the floor, Active sports, such as basketball or tennis, Climbing stairs, Walking, Jogging, Bicycling, Swimming, Dancing.	-1
Heavier weights require more strain, which can cause a greater increase in blood pressure.	-1
You can challenge your muscles with lighter weights by increasing the number of repetitions you do.	-1
Weight training can cause a temporary increase in blood pressure during exercise.	-1
This increase can be dramatic, depending on how much weight you lift.	-1
But weightlifting can also have long-term benefits to blood pressure that outweigh the risk of a temporary spike for most people.	-1
And it can improve other aspects of cardiovascular health that can help to reduce overall cardiovascular risk.	-1
The Department of Health and Human Services recommends incorporating strength training exercises of all the major muscle groups into a fitness routine at least two times a week.	-1
Sometimes it's best to check with your doctor before you jump into an exercise program, especially if:	-1
You're a man older than age 45 or a woman older than age 55.	-1
You smoke or quit smoking in the past six months.	-1
You're overweight or obese.	-1
You have a chronic health condition, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease or lung disease.	-1
You have high cholesterol or high blood pressure.	-1
You've had a heart attack.	-1
You have a family history of heart-related problems before age 55 in men and age 65 in women.	-1
You feel pain or discomfort in your chest, jaw, neck or arms during activity.	-1
You become dizzy with exertion.	-1
You're unsure if you're in good health or you haven't been exercising regularly.	-1
Eating food with lots of fibre will help you feel full for longer, so you're more likely to stick to your calorie limit.	-1
Adding some fibre to your breakfast can help you stay feeling full until lunch and reduce the urge for a midmorning snack.	-1
Veg sticks, carrot, celery or cucumber sticks or a packet of sugar snap peas.	-1
You can enjoy these low calorie snacks if you feel hungry in between your meals.	-1
Reduced-fat hummus.	-1
For a bit of variety, dip your veg sticks, wholegrain crisp breads or pitta bread in a tub of reduced-fat hummus.	-1
You'll get the fibre from both the veg and the bread.	-1
Food with fibre: apricots, orange, apple, wholemeal bread, jacket potato, peas, spinach, new potatoes, chickpeas, baked beans, brown spaghetti, brown rice, wholemeal pitta bread.	-1
Evidence shows that people who combine regular physical activity with calorie-counting are more successful at losing weight and keeping it off.	-1
Moderate activity will raise your heart rate and make you breathe faster and feel warmer.	-1
A post-exercise snack high in calories could actually see you putting on weight instead of losing it.	-1
Instead, choose foods that are lower in calories but still filling, such as fruit, low-fat yoghurt or reduced-fat hummus with brown pita.	-1
Things people choose when they start to become more active: walking, cycling, gardening, swimming, dancing, playing a sport, such as badminton, football or bowls, stretching exercise, e.g.	-1
yoga, going to the gym.	-1
Gardening can provide a good workout.	-1
You could also add a social element by getting an allotment	-1
Grilling is a quick and healthier way of cooking as it doesn't use any fat.	-1
Poaching is a fat-free way of cooking eggs, some meats and fish, using a pan of boiling water.	-1
Steaming is a fat-free way of cooking veg and fish Boiling	-1
Boiling doesn't require any oil and therefore adds no calories to food.	-1
To stay healthy or to improve fitness, adults should aim to do 150 minutes of aerobic exercise,such walking, running, tennis and cycling, and Two sessions of muscle strengthening activities, such as lifting weights, exercisessuch as push-ups and sit-ups, heavy gardening or yoga every week.	-1
If you've increased your activity levels,you may feel like a snack or two to keep you going between meals.	-1
A healthier snack will help you beat your cravings and keep your energy levels up between meals.	-1
Some people need a snack between meals to maintain energy levels, especially if they are very active.	-1
Choosing fruit or vegetables instead of crisps, chocolate and other high-calorie snacks will help you replace lost energy without putting on weight.	-1
A snack is a good opportunity to increase your intake of fruit and vegetables.	-1
To count towards your 5 A DAY, each portion of fruit or veg should be 80g.	-1
Women should not regularly drink more than 2-3 units a day.	-1
As a guide, a pint of lager and a 250ml glass of wine both contain 3 units of alcohol.	-1
Drinking in rounds can mean you end up drinking more than you intended.	-1
Although fruit juice counts towards your 5 A DAY, you may find eating pieces of fruit more filling.	-1
'Low-fat' or 'fat-free' doesn't always mean low calorie.	-1
Thinking you'll lose half a stone (3kg) in your first week is probably setting yourself up for failure.	-1
A realistic goal is vital to successful dieting.	-1
Smaller goals are the building blocks to weight loss success.	-1
This is a common reason why people struggle to lose weight.	-1
Chinese food can be low-calorie.	-1
In spite of its reliance on frying, there are plenty of healthier choices in Indian food.	-1
A 5 A DAY portion of dried fruit is around 30g.	-1
This is about one heaped tablespoon of raisins.	-1
For protein, you could add a boiled egg, chicken slices or cooked lentils.	-1
Research shows that people who fit moderate activity, such as walking, into their daily life burn more calories than those making weekly visits to the gym.	-1
Cycling to work is one of the easiest ways of fitting exercise into your day.	-1
It also saves you money on travel costs.	-1
Park games such as 'It' are ideal for all the family to get active together and burn calories while having fun.	-1
Skipping can be done anywhere at any time.	-1
The average person will burn up to 200kcal skipping for 15 minutes.	-1
Provided you can work up the bottle to join a group of strangers for a kick about, football is both an excellent way to get fit and to make friends.	-1
Aimed at people who don't normally walk very much, 'mall walking' is brisk walking through shopping centres.	-1
An easy-to-digest diet free from processed foods can alleviate inflammation.	-1
Foods that may alleviate inflammation that leads to pain include leafy greens, foods high in omega-3 fatty acids, asparagus, low-sugar fruits (cherries, cranberries, plums, pineapple), and soy products.	-1
Yoga promotes both strength and flexibility while calming the mind and decreasing stress.	-1
This centuries-old practice offers a method of stress reduction that can help those suffering from chronic pain, reports the Mayo Clinic.	-1
Talking about your pain may help reduce its effects.	-1
Counselling can help with pain	-1
Milder forms of pain may be relieved by over-the-counter medications such as Tylenol (acetaminophen) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen.	-1
Tylenol or Advil, taken according to package directions, may help reduce inflammation and pain.	-1
Topical pain relievers.	-1
These are creams, salves or ointments you rub into your skin at the site of your pain.	-1
Certain drugs, such as codeine or hydrocodone, may be used for a short time with close supervision by your doctor.	-1
When it comes to pain, hot and cold compresses may be very beneficial.	-1
They don't cause the long-term side effects that medications might.	-1
Heat is helpful for joint stiffness, and cold compresses are best for joint pain.	-1
Epsom salt baths can provide allover relief, especially for joint pain.	-1
The magnesium in Epsom salt may help with inflammation and pain.	-1
You can buy Epsom salt from a drugstore.	-1
These baths are safe enough to take as often as you'd like for 30 minutes at a time.	-1
You may want to try topical versions as an alternative to oral over-the-counter (OTC) medications like acetaminophen and ibuprofen.	-1
These gels and creams may contain aspirin or analgesics to numb the pain.	-1
You can apply them directly to the affected joints.	-1
These products can work well for areas that are near the skin surface, such as your knees.	-1
Another topical home remedy is capsaicin.	-1
Capsaicin is a compound made from hot chili peppers.	-1
It works best when you apply it to painful joints three to four times per day.	-1
You may also want to try other ointments like Tiger Balm or horse liniment.	-1
Sugar-rich carbohydrates, such as processed cakes, cookies, and bakery items, may actually change your body's immune-response to disease according to one study.	-1
This reaction can worsen inflammation and leave your strained joints feeling even weaker.	-1
Natural substitutes such as pure maple syrup and honey may appease your sweet tooth without contributing to arthritis symptoms.	-1
Eating too much salt causes your cells to retain water.	-1
This means that they swell up.	-1
Your body does need sodium to function, but eating too much leads to an inflammatory reaction.	-1
This can contribute to joint damage.	-1
you should limit your intake of foods containing omega-6 fatty acids, such as egg yolks and red meat.	-1
Saturated fats may increase levels of inflammation in the body, making arthritis pain worse.	-1
Eating foods rich in omega-3s, such as salmon, almonds, and beans, will give you the protein you need without worsening your symptoms.	-1
Drinking alcohol, especially beer, can contribute to flare-ups because of high purine levels in commercial alcohol products.	-1
Most arthritis medication should never be mixed with alcohol because it interacts with the effectiveness of the drug and can actually be quite dangerous.	-1
Low-impact physical therapy can also keep you flexible and allow your hips to move more smoothly.	-1
Good exercises for physical therapy include:yoga, tai chi, stationary biking, swimming.	-1
Braces or shoe inserts.	-1
Your doctor may recommend shoe inserts or other devices that can help reduce pain when you stand or walk.	-1
These devices can immobilize or support your joint to help take pressure off it.	-1
Sticking to a regular exercise routine is a good way to strengthen your core.	-1
But be careful; rigorous, high-impact exercise may aggravate back pain if you have not trained to handle such high-impact workouts.	-1
A diet rich in calcium, vitamin D, as well as fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, energizes your body and powers your muscles.	-1
Drinking plenty of water helps reduce inflammationthe culprit of many conditions for chronic pain.	-1
Meditation: The benefits of mediation are manyfocused attention, increased calmness, coping with illness, and an overall improvement of well-being.	-1
Yoga: Focusing on body awareness and conscious breath work can relieve tension and is beneficial in providing back pain relief.	-1
Acupuncture: This technique involves penetrating the skin with needles, hand manipulation, and/or electrical stimulation.	-1
Acupuncture is among the oldest healing practices in the world.	-1
Tai Chi: This gentle exercise is effective in reducing back pain; the slow movements provide exercise while minimizing strain on the back.	-1
If you're experiencing regular back pain, filling the bathtub with lukewarm water and a few handfuls of Epsom salt can work wonders.	-1
Cheap and easy to find, Epsom salt works its way through the skin and into sore muscles.	-1
Water temperature is key, as hot water can cause muscles to swell and cold water is, well, just not fun, and can cause muscle cramping.	-1
An added benefit of Epsom salt is that it's great for your skin as well.	-1
Low doses of certain types of antidepressants  particularly tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline  have been shown to relieve some types of chronic back pain, independent of their effect on depression.	-1
Physical therapy is the cornerstone of back pain treatment.	-1
A physical therapist can apply a variety of treatments, such as heat, ultrasound, electrical stimulation and muscle-release techniques, to your back muscles and soft tissues to reduce pain.	-1
Getting regular physical activity is a great way to improve the quality of your sleep.	-1
But doing targeted exercises to strengthen your core - the muscles in your abdomen, hips, lower back, and pelvis - can also help ease back pain.	-1
Research has shown that yoga or intensive stretching can help reduce low back pain.	-1
It can also help reduce your stress and make you sleep better.	-1
You can take over-the-counter (OTC) pain medications, such as ibuprofen or aspirin, to get rid of a tension headache.	-1
However, these should only be used occasionally.	-1
Some supplements may also help relieve tension headaches.	-1
However, since alternative remedies can interact with conventional medications, you should always discuss these with a doctor first.	-1
According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), the following supplements may help prevent tension headaches: butterbur, coenzyme Q10, feverfew, magnesium, riboflavin (vitamin B-2).	-1
Other ways to ease a tension headache include: applying a heating pad or ice pack to your head for five to 10 minutes several times a day;	-1
taking a hot bath or shower to relax tense muscles;	-1
improving your posture;	-1
taking frequent computer breaks to prevent eye strain.	-1
Since tension headaches are often caused by specific triggers, identifying the factors that cause your headaches is one way to prevent future episodes.	-1
A headache diary will help you determine the cause of your tension headaches.	-1
You can keep a record of your daily meals, beverages, and activities, as well as any situations that trigger stress.	-1
After several weeks or months, you may be able to make a connection.	-1
For example, if your journal shows that headaches occurred on days when you ate a particular food, this food may be your trigger.	-1
Acupuncture for Headaches.	-1
In this form of Chinese medicine, a practitioner places fine needles at certain points in your body.	-1
Stimulating these points may release your body's natural painkillers - endorphins - to ease neck, shoulder, and head pain.	-1
Some studies have found that when done as preventive therapy over several months, acupuncture may reduce the number of tension headaches people get.	-1
Acupuncture can be done on its own or with other treatments.	-1
Healthy carbohydrates can provide you with fiber.	-1
The options include: vegetables, fruits, legumes, such as beans, whole grains.	-1
Foods with heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids include: tuna, sardines, salmon, mackerel, halibut, cod.	-1
You can get healthy monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats from a number of foods, including: olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil, almonds, pecans, walnuts, avocados.	-1
There are certain foods that you should limit or avoid entirely.	-1
These include: foods heavy in saturated fats, foods heavy in trans fats, beef, processed meats, shellfish, organ meats, such as beef or liver, stick margarine,  shortening, baked goods, processed snacks, sugary drinks, high-fat dairy products, salty foods, fried foods.	-1
Foods rich in good fatù can help lower cholesterol levels.	-1
It's also important to get urgent care if your headache is accompanied by fever, stiff neck, seizures, numbness, double vision, dizziness, severe nausea, shortness of breath, or confusion.	-1
Whole-grain food options include:  sprouted and whole-grain bread, legumes and beans, whole wheat pasta, wild or brown rice, high-fiber whole-grain cereal, other grains such as quinoa, amaranth, and millet.	-1
When someone with diabetes has low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), a spoonful of sugar or honey can help raise glucose levels.	-1
However, sugar is often considered the nemesis of diabetes because of how quickly it can spike blood glucose levels when eaten alone.	-1
Eating quick-digesting foods with other foods will help slow down their digestion and help you avoid spikes in blood sugar.	-1
Other foods to eat: olive oil, avocados, nuts and seeds.	-1
Foods to limit: red meat, processed lunch meats, high-fat dairy products like cheese.	-1
Fruits to limit: watermelon, pineapple, raisins, apricots, grapes, oranges.	-1
Sticking to a routine and developing a proper meal plan are fundamental to managing your diabetes.	-1
Regular exercise combined with a healthy diet can also help you better manage your diabetes.	-1
Maintaining a healthy weight can help lower your blood sugar and cholesterol levels, as well as improve your blood pressure.	-1
Antacids, such as Maalox, Mylanta, Gelusil, Gaviscon, Rolaids and Tums, may provide quick relief.	-1
But antacids alone won't heal an inflamed esophagus damaged by stomach acid.	-1
Overuse of some antacids can cause side effects, such as diarrhea or constipation.	-1
Called H-2-receptor blockers, these medications include cimetidine (Tagamet HB), famotidine (Pepcid AC), nizatidine (Axid AR) or ranitidine (Zantac).	-1
H-2-receptor blockers don't act as quickly as antacids do, but they provide longer relief and may decrease acid production from the stomach for up to 12 hours.	-1
Stronger versions of these medications are available in prescription form.	-1
Proton pump inhibitors are stronger blockers of acid production than are H-2-receptor blockers and allow time for damaged esophageal tissue to heal.	-1
Over-the-counter proton pump inhibitors include lansoprazole (Prevacid 24 HR) and omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid OTC).	-1
Vegetables are naturally low in fat and sugar and help reduce stomach acid.	-1
Good options include green beans, broccoli, asparagus, cauliflower, leafy greens, potatoes, and cucumbers.	-1
Ginger has natural anti-inflammatory properties, and it's a natural treatment for heartburn and other gastrointestinal problems.	-1
You can add grated or sliced ginger root to recipes or smoothies or drink ginger tea to ease symptoms.	-1
Oatmeal is a breakfast favorite, a whole grain, and an excellent source of fiber.	-1
Oatmeal can absorb acid in the stomach and reduce symptoms of reflux.	-1
Other fiber options include whole-grain breads and whole-grain rice.	-1
Noncitrus fruits, including melons, bananas, apples, and pears, are less likely to trigger reflux symptoms than acidic fruits.	-1
Egg whites are a good option.	-1
Fried and fatty foods can cause the LES to relax, allowing more stomach acid to back up into the esophagus.	-1
These foods also delay stomach emptying.	-1
Eating high-fat foods puts you at greater risk for reflux symptoms, so reducing your total daily fat intake can help.	-1
Fruits and vegetables are important in a healthy diet.	-1
But certain fruits can cause or worsen GERD symptoms, especially highly acidic fruits.	-1
If you have frequent acid reflux, you should reduce or eliminate your intake of the following foods: oranges, grapefruit, lemons, limes, pineapple, tomatoes, tomato sauce or foods that use it, such as pizza and chili, salsa.	-1
Chocolate contains an ingredient called methylxanthine.	-1
It has been shown to relax the smooth muscle in the LES and increase reflux.	-1
Spicy and tangy foods, such as onions and garlic, trigger heartburn symptoms in many people.	-1
These foods won't trigger reflux in everyone.	-1
Some of these foods, along with spicy foods, may bother you more than others.	-1
People with acid reflux may notice their symptoms acting up after their morning coffee.	-1
This is because caffeine is a known trigger of acid reflux.	-1
Mint and products with mint flavoring, like chewing gum and breath mints, also can trigger acid reflux symptoms.	-1
Medications, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, others) may help relieve the pain and inflammation associated with avascular necrosis.	-1
Medications, such as alendronate (Fosamax, Binosto), may slow the progression of avascular necrosis, but the evidence is mixed.	-1
Reducing the amount of cholesterol and fat in your blood may help prevent the vessel blockages that can cause avascular necrosis.	-1
Reducing the weight and stress on your affected bone can slow the damage.	-1
You might need to restrict your physical activity or use crutches to keep weight off your joint for several months.	-1
Electrical currents might encourage your body to grow new bone to replace the area damaged by avascular necrosis.	-1
Electrical stimulation can be used during surgery and applied directly to the damaged area.	-1
Or it can be administered through electrodes attached to your skin.	-1
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can be used to reduce pain and inflammation in patients who cannot have surgery for medical or other reasons or for patients who are undergoing surgical treatment.	-1
Physical therapy can be helpful to restore motion and improve gait.	-1
Extracorporeal shockwave treatment has shown some promise in treating early disease by promoting angiogenesis and bone remodeling	-1
In early AVN, patients should use crutches or other supports to avoid weight bearing.	-1
In advanced AVN, the disease course is unaffected by activity; surgery is the only option.	-1
One of the main prevention methods of avascular necrosis listed by the the National Institutes of Health is avoiding excessive alcohol consumption and is, therefore, one of the most important things you can do for your diet once diagnosed with the disease.	-1
Calcium and vitamin D work together to build healthy bones.	-1
Although these nutrients alone do not specifically treat avascular necrosis, they are important in preserving bone mass.	-1
Foods rich in these essential nutrients include dairy products like milk, cheese and yogurt, as well as fortified cereals, orange juice and soy milk.	-1
The National Institutes of Health notes that most people do not get enough vitamin D or calcium to maintain healthy bones.	-1
Adults require at least 1,000 mg of calcium each day, and 1,200 mg if they are 70 years or older.	-1
They also require at least 600 IU of vitamin D daily, or 800 IU if over the age of 70.	-1
Because vitamins and minerals work together in the body to ensure all systems function properly, it is important to eat a variety of foods, especially whole grains, fresh fruits and vegetables each day.	-1
According to the USDA adults require 6 to 8 oz.	-1
of grains daily, half of which should be whole grains.	-1
They also require 1 1/2 to 2 cups of fruit and 2 1/2 to 3 cups of vegetables each day.	-1
Typically, foods rich in color are also high in vitamins.	-1
Eating a well-balanced, healthy diet is important when you have AVN.	-1
As well as providing you with all the nutrients you need, this will help you maintain a healthy weight.	-1
In general, a healthy diet is one that is: high in fruit and vegetables, high in starch and fibre, low in fatty foods and salt, low in added sugars. "	-1
Adopting a healthy diet can help you lose weight.	-1
Carrying extra weight adds extra pressure on weight bearing joints such as the back, hips, knees, ankles and feet.	-1
Losing even a few pounds can make a significant difference.	-1
Exercise is an important part of weight loss and control, so make sure you incorporate that into your daily routine.	-1
However AVN will certainly be working against you here, so think about using exercises that are appropriate, for example a floor mounted pedal machine lets you sit in your normal chair and exercise at the same time.	-1
All alcoholic drinks contain calories ‚Äì something people often do not realise.	-1
Cutting down on alcohol will help you lose weight and will be good for you too.	-1
Alcohol can interact with AVN pain control  medication or make some side effects worse.	-1
Most people should get the nutrients they need through their diet without taking supplements.	-1
Studies suggest that phytoestrogens in soybeans and soy-rich foods may inhibit the activity of an enzyme that makes thyroid hormones.	-1
One†study†found that women who consumed soy supplements were three times more likely to develop hypothyroidism.	-1
Taking iron or calcium supplements can also change the effectiveness of many thyroid medications.	-1
Cruciferous vegetables that are rich in fiber, like broccoli, cabbage, spinach, kale, and Brussels sprouts, may inhibit thyroid medication absorption.	-1
Reducing the amounts of such produce in the morning right after taking your medication may help.	-1
Blueberries, tomatoes, bell peppers, and other foods rich in antioxidants can improve overall health and benefit the thyroid gland.	-1
Eating foods high in B vitamins, like whole grains, may also help.	-1
Tiny amounts of selenium are needed for the enzymes that make thyroid hormones to work properly.	-1
Eating selenium-rich foods, such as sunflower seeds or Brazil nuts, can be beneficial.	-1
This amino acid is used by the thyroid gland to produce T3 and T4.	-1
Good sources of tyrosine are meats, dairy, and legumes.	-1
Taking a supplement may help, but ask your doctor beforehand.	-1
You may also decide to use alternative medicines for hypothyroidism.	-1
Some plant extracts, like ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), coleus (Coleus forskohlii), gotu kola (Centella asiatica), and guggul (Commiphora mukul), may ease symptoms of hypothyroidism.	-1
Evidence to support these claims are limited, however.	-1
Regularly participating in activities like running, walking at a brisk pace, or playing a sport can improve cardiac health.	-1
The related mood-boosting benefits can also relieve other hypothyroidism symptoms including depression and fatigue.	-1
Those with hypothyroidism frequently experience muscle and joint pain.	-1
Low-impact activities that minimize stress on joints such as the knee, hip, or back may be easier to do as opposed to more strenuous activities.	-1
Some options include yoga, Pilates, walking, swimming, and biking.	-1
Because hypothyroidism lowers your body's resting metabolic rate, people with this condition are more liable to gain weight and suffer secondary problems caused by obesity.	-1
Building muscle through strength training can counteract these effects.	-1
Sugar and processed foods can lead to increased inflammation in the body.	-1
Inflammation can slow down the conversion of T4 to triiodothyronine, or T3, another thyroid hormone.	-1
This can make your symptoms and thyroid disease worsen.	-1
Low thyroid hormones can affect your body's vitamin B-12 levels.	-1
Taking a vitamin B-12 supplement may help you repair some of the damage your hypothyroidism caused.	-1
There is no specific hypothyroidism diet.	-1
Eating a low-fat diet with a good balance of fruits, vegetables, lean protein (fish, poultry, lean meat), dairy, and whole grains is a good strategy for everyone to follow.	-1
Hypothyroidism does come with a few dietary restrictions.	-1
First, you'll want to avoid high-fat, processed, and sugary foods that can contribute to weight gain.	-1
Too much salt can raise your blood pressure, which is already a risk when your thyroid is underactive.	-1
Eating a proper diet, with a focus on calcium and sodium, is important, especially in preventing hyperthyroidism.	-1
Hyperthyroidism can also cause your bones to become weak and thin, which can lead to osteoporosis.	-1
Taking vitamin D and calcium supplements during and after treatment can help strengthen your bones.	-1
Your doctor can tell you how much vitamin D and calcium to take each day.	-1
Salmon contains vitamin Dan essential nutrient that works with calcium to prevent bone loss.	-1
Salmon also carries a megadose of omega-3 fatty acids that keep you healthy.	-1
Your body doesn't naturally produce these fatty acids, so you have to get them from food.	-1
Untreated hyperthyroidism can eventually weaken your bones and may lead to osteoporosis.	-1
While there isn't a hypothyroidism diet, you should focus your meals around veggies, fruits, whole grains, lean protein, and healthy fats.	-1
And to keep your energy levels stable, you can eat small meals throughout the day.	-1
Weight gain is a common symptom of hypothyroidism, so eating well can also help you maintain a healthy weight.	-1
Some foods (eg, high-fiber foods) and supplements (eg, iron, calcium) can affect how you absorb levothyroxine, so talk to your doctor about these foods and supplements.	-1
Exercise can boost energy, decrease stress, and help you maintain a healthy weight (all important benefits, especially if you have hypothyroidism).	-1
Having a chronic diseaseeven if it's being treated and monitored by your doctorcan be stressful.	-1
It can take a toll on your overall health.	-1
Ice packs on the throat can help to reduce inflammation	-1
Certain foods can help to depress the thyroid, for instance cruciferous vegetables (e.g.	-1
cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, brussels sprouts, spinach)	-1
A heating pad placed on your lower abdomen can soothe and possibly minimize feelings of bladder pressure or pain.	-1
Foods are considered low in potassium if they contain 200 milligrams (mg) or less per serving.	-1
Some low-potassium foods include: berries, such as strawberries and blueberries, apples, grapefruit, pineapple, cranberries and cranberry juice, cauliflower, broccoli, eggplant, green beans, white rice, white pasta, white bread, salmon.	-1
Foods are considered high in potassium if they contain more than 200 mg per serving.	-1
These should be eaten in very small quantities, or avoided completely.	-1
The juice usually has a high salt content, which will cause the body to hold onto water.	-1
This can lead to complications with your kidneys.	-1
This is also true of meat juice, so be sure to avoid this, too.	-1
People with functioning kidneys need around 4,700 mg of potassium in their daily diet.	-1
However, people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) should consume much less  around 1,500 to 2,700 mg each day.	-1
Eating smaller portions of protein, such as chicken and beef, is important.	-1
A protein-rich diet can cause your kidneys to work too hard.	-1
Reducing your protein intake by practicing portion control may help.	-1
Sodium may increase thirst and lead you to drink too many fluids, or cause bodily swelling, both of which are bad for your kidneys.	-1
Sodium is a hidden ingredient in many packaged foods, so make sure to read the labels.	-1
You'll also likely need to take a phosphate binder with your meals.	-1
This can prevent your phosphorus levels from getting too high.	-1
If these levels get too high, it can cause an inverse drop in calcium, leading to weak bones.	-1
You may also consider limiting your cholesterol and total fat intake.	-1
When your kidneys don't filter effectively, eating foods heavy in these components is harder on your body.	-1
Becoming overweight due to a poor diet can also put added stress on your kidneys.	-1
You may find eating out to be challenging at first, but you can find kidney-friendly foods in almost every type of cuisine.	-1
For example, grilled or broiled meat and seafood are good options at most American restaurants.	-1
You can also opt for a salad instead of a potato-based side like fries, chips, or mashed potatoes.	-1
Deli meats are also high in salt and should be avoided.	-1
Reducing your intake of saturated fat, trans fat and cholesterol will help improve both aspects of dyslipidemia.	-1
Eating too many starchy foods can prove problematic as well such as potatoes and corn.	-1
Eating a fiber-rich diet will also help lower cholesterol levels as fiber binds to it in the intestine, which moves it out of the body rather than into the bloodstream.	-1
Water soluble fiber like grapefruit pectin, oat bran, and psyllium aids in reducing the levels of LDL cholesterol.	-1
It must be mentioned that approximately 2/3rd of the dietary fiber(Wheat fiber) is water insoluble and thus patients can choose either a high-fiber diet or a diet in which fresh fruits and oat fiber are prevalent.	-1
Adding stanol, plant sterols, sterol esters, healthy margarines etc can be beneficial for people with dyslipidemia.	-1
All plant foods contain sterols, the substances that have been shown to lower cholesterol.	-1
It is essential for you to avoid smoking if you are suffering from dyslipidemia.	-1
To reap the most cholesterol-lowering benefits from your program, you must follow a low-fat, calorie-restricted diet and continue to take all medications recommended by your physician.	-1
Typically high in salt, sugar and unhealthy fats, you definitely want to stay clear of packaged and highly processed foods.	-1
Omega-3 foods can help increase good cholesterol and reduce risk of cardiovascular disease.	-1
Fish rich in heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids include sardines, tuna, salmon, herring and mackerel.	-1
Soluble fiber binds cholesterol in the digestive system, causing it to be excreted by the body.	-1
Consuming just one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar per day can naturally lower¬†your cholesterol.	-1
EPA and DHA (omega-3 fats) found in fish oil help reduce overall cholesterol levels, which in turn can help stave off this condition.	-1
Niacin (vitamin B3) reduces LDL cholesterol by 25 percent and increases good cholesterol by 35 percent, which is why you want to include niacin foods in your diet.	-1
Fluid intake is also important, as it keeps the bladder and bowel healthy.	-1
Fiber-rich foods like bran, fruit, and vegetables can help with constipation.	-1
Certain factors can also increase a person's risk for incontinence.	-1
These factors include: being overweight, as weight puts pressure on the bladder; age, as older adults tend to have weaker bladder muscles; pregnancy and childbirth, which can affect the pelvic floor and bladder muscles; menopause, as hormones affect the bladder; enlarged prostate or prostate surgery; certain medications; trauma that affects the nerves.	-1
The sessions focused on tactics for these skills: Memory, Reasoning, Speed of processing information	-1
Certain foods and drinks can also trigger a vestibular migraine: Chocolate, red wine, aged cheeses, monosodium glutamate (MSG), processed meats, coffee, sodas with caffeine	-1
Lifestyle changes can also help:	-1
If menstruation is a cause of your migraines, it may help to take a water pill and avoid eating salty foods.	-1
Exercise-induced migraines occur most often in association with certain vigorous or strenuous sports or activities, including: Weightlifting, rowing, running, tennis, Swimming, football	-1
A migraine headache, with aura in particular, may occur during exercise or sports that require great or sudden physical exertion.	-1
A lack of sleep always makes me more susceptible to my migraine triggers.	-1
For example, stress doesn't always trigger them, but if I'm tired and stressed, I usually end up with a migraine.	-1
Migraines may be triggered by strenuous exercise	-1
Migraines may be triggered by emotional or physical stress	-1
Migraines may be triggered by inconsistent or inadequate sleep or eating patterns	-1
Migraines may be triggered by strong sensory encounters, such as bright sunlight, noise or noisy environments, or strong scents	-1
Migraines may be triggered by hormonal changes	-1
Migraines may be triggered by foods and beverages that contain alcohol, caffeine, aspartame, or monosodium glutamate	-1
Migraines may be triggered by disturbances to your body clock, or circadian rhythms, such as when you travel or experience periods of insomnia	-1
Exercise-induced migraines are more likely to occur in people who are exercising in hot, humid weather, or at high altitudes.	-1
You should see your doctor if you're in your 50s and suddenly develop the symptoms of a migraine.	-1
In general, vitamins such as thiamine and folic acid will need to be supplemented.	-1
In addition, the physician may add a daily multiple vitamin.	-1
The person should also try to eat three well-balanced meals per day and drink enough water to remain hydrated.	-1
The best way to prevent AWD is to drink moderately or not at all.	-1
It's important to address issues with heavy drinking in a medical environment rather than trying it on your own.	-1
Drinking can serve as a coping mechanism and source of stress relief for some people.	-1
Certain people may choose meditation as a means to replace drinking with a more positive stress relief method.	-1
Acupuncturists believe techniques can help people detoxify their bodies, especially the liver.	-1
Because alcoholism can cause liver scarring, this is a rumored benefit.	-1
Yoga is a gentle exercise designed to help you get in tune with your body.	-1
Because alcoholism can make you feel out of control, yoga may help.	-1
The practice involves careful breathing and slow, gentle movements to stretch and tone your body.	-1
A 2005 Harvard University study suggested kudzu might reduce alcohol consumption by heavy drinkers.	-1
There are a number of ways to treat alcoholism, including:	-1
Quit cold turkeyù to treat alcoholism	-1
Gradually cutting back on drinks to treat alcoholism	-1
No matter what method of treating alcoholism you choose, a variety of alternative treatments can make the road to sobriety easier.	-1
These include: Meditation, acupuncture, yoga, light therapy, herbs, nutritional counseling	-1
Your doctor or therapist may recommend one or more of the following treatment options: Detoxification, behavior modification, counseling, medications	-1
Several medications are used to treat alcohol addiction.	-1
They include:	-1
Medication to treat alcohol addiction: disulfiram, an alcohol-sensitizing drug that may lower your desire to drink by making you sick when you consume alcohol.	-1
When combined with alcohol, it can cause flushing, nausea, vomiting, and headaches.	-1
Medication to treat alcohol addiction: acamprosate, which may help combat alcohol cravings by restoring the balance of certain chemicals in your brain.	-1
Medication to treat alcohol addiction: naltrexone, which blocks the feel-good effects that alcohol has on your brain.	-1
Without those good feelings, you may feel less inclined to drink.	-1
A doctor may prescribe drugs to help certain conditions.	-1
For example, antidepressants, if someone with an alcohol addiction were self-medicating to treat their depression.	-1
Or a doctor could prescribe drugs to assist with other emotions common in recovery.	-1
Therapy is useful to help teach someone how to manage the stress of recovery and the skills needed to prevent a relapse.	-1
Also, a healthy diet can help undo damage alcohol may have done to the person's health, like weight gain or loss.	-1
Alcohol addiction may involve several different treatment methods.	-1
It's important that each person get involved in a recovery program that will support long-term sobriety.	-1
This could mean an emphasis on therapy for someone who is depressed, or inpatient treatment for someone with severe withdrawal symptoms.	-1
You may also be at a greater risk for alcoholism if you: are a young adult experiencing peer pressure, have low self-esteem, experience a high level of stress, live in a family or culture where alcohol use is common and accepted, have a close relative with alcohol use disorder	-1
Diseases that cause inflammation and infection, such as pneumonia, can interfere with brain function.	-1
Additionally, taking certain medications (e.g., blood pressure medicine) or abusing drugs can disrupt chemicals in the brain.	-1
Alcohol withdrawal and eating or drinking poisonous substances can also cause delirium.	-1
When you have trouble breathing due to asthma or another condition, your brain doesn't get the oxygen it needs.	-1
Any condition or factor that significantly changes your brain function can cause severe mental confusion.	-1
Surgery patients and people withdrawing from alcohol and drug abuse are also more at risk.	-1
Conditions that damage the brain (e.g., stroke and dementia) can increase the risk.	-1
Your risk is also higher if you are under extreme emotional stress.	-1
The following factors may also contribute to delirium: sleep deprivation, certain medications (e.g., sedatives, blood pressure medications, sleeping pills, and painkillers), dehydration, poor nutrition, infection (e.g., urinary tract infection)	-1
Possible causes include: Certain medications or drug toxicity, Alcohol or drug abuse or withdrawal, A medical condition, Metabolic imbalances, such as low sodium or low calcium, Severe, chronic or terminal illness, Fever and acute infection, particularly in children, Exposure to a toxin, Malnutrition or dehydration, Sleep deprivation or severe emotional distress, Pain, Surgery or other medical procedures that include anesthesia	-1
Several medications or combinations of drugs can trigger delirium, including some types of: Pain drugs, Sleep medications, Medications for mood disorders, such as anxiety and depression, Allergy medications (antihistamines), Parkinson's disease drugs, Drugs for treating spasms or convulsions, Asthma medications	-1
You're also more likely to develop neurocognitive disorders if you: are over age 60, have a cardiovascular disorder, have diabetes, abuse alcohol or drugs, participate in sports with a high risk of head trauma, such as football and rugby	-1
Medications: Your doctor may prescribe antidepressants, antianxiety, or antipsychotic medications.	-1
Psychotherapy: Speaking with a therapist can help you learn skills to cope with negative feelings.	-1
You may also benefit from family or group therapy sessions.	-1
Light therapy: Exposure to doses of white light can help regulate mood and improve symptoms of depression.	-1
This therapy is commonly used in seasonal affective disorder (which is now called major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern).	-1
Some supplements may worsen depression or reduce the effectiveness of medication.	-1
Medicinal marijuana may relieve symptoms of anxiety.	-1
Marijuana does help with my depression.	-1
It makes it manageable and evens out the rough edges, so to speak.	-1
Exercising regularly is one of the best things you can do for your mental health.	-1
All types of physical exercise can help treat depression, but it's best to exercise regularly.	-1
To get better sleep, you should not look at any screens for two hours before bed (including your phone!)	-1
To get better sleep, you can meditate before bed	-1
To get better sleep, you can have a comfortable mattress	-1
To get better sleep, you can avoid caffeine after noon	-1
A few medications that can cause depression include: hormonal medications; like birth control pills; beta-blocker; corticosteroids; anticonvulsants	-1
Smoking and depression¬†can perpetuate each other, though any type of nicotine can act as a depression trigger.	-1
Eating a healthy diet will make you feel better both physically and mentally.	-1
No one knows you better than you do.	-1
Keeping a journal is a great way to track your moods, stress, and anxiety.	-1
Many people find that identifying and writing down their problems makes them easier to deal with.	-1
If you are working with a mental health specialist, a journal can help both of you figure out what triggers your stress and what helps you feel better.	-1
While tobacco, drugs, and alcohol are often called stress relievers, using them actually damages the body, making it harder for you to handle stress and anxiety.	-1
Caffeine, too, can cause or increase anxiety.	-1
Addiction to these substances can lead to additional anxiety and stress, and withdrawal can create anxiety as well.	-1
In general, the things that make and keep you healthy will also help you cope with stress and anxiety and avoid future symptoms.	-1
Drugs that contain stimulants may make the symptoms of stress and anxiety worse.	-1
Regular use of caffeine, illicit drugs such as cocaine, and even alcohol can also make symptoms worse.	-1
Prescription medications that can make symptoms worse include: thyroid medications, asthma inhalers, diet pills	-1
Certain lifestyle changes can help alleviate symptoms of stress and anxiety.	-1
These techniques can be used along with medical treatments for anxiety.	-1
eating a balanced, healthy diet to reduce stress	-1
limiting caffeine and alcohol consumption to reduce stress	-1
getting enough sleep to reduce stress	-1
getting regular exercise to reduce stress	-1
meditating to reduce stress	-1
scheduling time for hobbies to reduce stress	-1
keeping a diary of your feelings to reduce stress	-1
practicing deep breathing to reduce stress	-1
recognizing the factors that trigger your stress to reduce stress	-1
talking to a friend to reduce stress	-1
Drinking alcohol can make you feel less anxious almost immediately.	-1
The easiest way to avoid the post-meal coma is to eat smaller-portioned meals throughout the day.	-1
Processed foods, such as canned foods high in sodium, candy, most packaged foods, boxed meals, and pre-cooked meats are typically full of preservatives, sodium, and other compounds that may slow you down.	-1
The fresher your food is, the more nutrients it will contain.	-1
Unlike processed foods that may be stripped of nutrients for a longer shelf life, fresh foods contain maximum nutrients.	-1
Eating in-season fruits and vegetables means they ripened naturally; Farmers' markets are sometimes your best bet for finding fresh produce.	-1
It may sound odd, but caffeine can make you tired.	-1
The first sips can give you a jolt, but you'll soon crash.	-1
Cutting back on caffeine can stabilize your energy levels so you can feel better.	-1
Sodas and energy drinks are full of sugar and other substances.	-1
Red meats marbled in fat adds saturated fat to your diet.	-1
Leaner meats, like chicken and fish, still provide quality protein, and contain less fat for your body.	-1
Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, like salmon, can add fats that may be beneficial to your heart.	-1
Just like processed foods, refined carbohydrates like sugars and white flour add little to your nutrition.	-1
Choosing whole grain foods and complex carbohydrates ensures that your body gets the full benefits of the hull of the grain that adds fiber to your diet.	-1
Nuts are some of the best foods to beat fatigue and fight hunger.	-1
Nuts that provide energy include almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, hazelnuts, pecans, and walnuts.	-1
Eating raw, unsalted nuts provide the most energy because they contain the most nutrients.	-1
And they're the perfect mid-afternoon snack.	-1
Drinking water is one of the easiest ways to hydrate your body.	-1
You don't always have to have exactly eight glasses a day, but if you swap out sodas, coffee, and other drinks for a glass of water, you'll feel better before you know it.	-1
If you're not getting everything you need from your food, you may want to consider taking a daily vitamin.	-1
Consulting with a nutritionist or homeopathic doctor could get you started on a nutritional supplement regiment.	-1
Being mindful of what's on your plate can be a healthy and effective way to keep your energy up.	-1
With regular exercise and good nutrition, you can maintain healthy levels of energy during depressive episodes.	-1
Finding effective treatment for and prevention of substance abuse has been difficult.	-1
Through research, we now have a better understanding of the behavior.	-1
Studies have made it clear that drug education and prevention aimed at children and adolescents offers the best chance to curb abuse nationally.	-1
Factors within a family that influence a child's early development have been shown to be related to increased risk of drug abuse.	-1
Such as, Chaotic home environment, Genetic risks (drug or alcohol abuse sometimes can run in families), Lack of nurturing and parental attachment	-1
Factors related to a child's socialization outside the family may also increase risk of drug abuse.	-1
Such as Inappropriately aggressive or shy behavior in the classroom, Poor social coping skills, Poor school performance, Association with a deviant peer group, Perception of approval of drug use behavior	-1
Medication: Common medications used in treating bipolar disorder are lithium, anticonvulsants, and mood stabilizers.	-1
Other medications used include antipsychotics, benzodiazepines, and beta-blockers.	-1
As with all medications, medications used to treat bipolar disorder can have mild to serious side effects so it is important to talk with your doctors about how you are feeling.	-1
Therapy: Both group and individual therapy can be helpful in bipolar disorder.	-1
Common types of therapy used are Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT), and family-focused therapies.	-1
Lifestyle changes: Healthy lifestyles changes can be an important part of overall recovery.	-1
This includes: sticking to a regular sleep schedule; reducing consumption of alcohol, caffeine, and similar substances; and exercising regularly.	-1
Some may use meditation, mind-body practices, and spirituality as resources as well.	-1
Support: Support and self-help groups are invaluable resources for learning coping skills, feeling accepted, and avoiding social isolation.	-1
In addition to in-person support groups and drop-in centers, there are many online communities where individuals can also find support.	-1
Additional support can be provided through employment, housing, and psychosocial rehabilitation programs.	-1
Friends and family can also join support groups to better understand how to offer encouragement and support their loved ones.	-1
Mood Swing Triggers in Bipolar Disorder: Sleep patterns, Energy level, Alcohol or drug use, Sex drive, Self-esteem, Concentration	-1
Sometimes, you may notice that there are specific things that can trigger mania or depression, such as getting too little sleep, changes to your daily routine, or jet lag when you travel.	-1
Many people find they're more likely to become depressed or manic during stressful times at work or during holidays.	-1
Some people see seasonal patterns to their mood changes.	-1
Of course, there may be triggers that you just can't avoid, like a serious illness or the death of a loved one.	-1
But if you can recognize the things that are likely to bring on mania or depression, you can prepare for times when you might be most vulnerable.	-1
There is no specific bipolar diet.	-1
Nevertheless, it is important to make wise dietary choices that will help you maintain a healthy weight and stay well.	-1
Avoiding the "Western" style diet that's rich in red meats, saturated fats and trans fats, and simple carbohydrates.	-1
This eating style is linked to a higher risk for obesity, type 2 diabetes, and heart disease.	-1
Eating less saturated fats and simple carbohydrates can help overall health but does not directly affect the symptoms of bipolar disorder.	-1
Eating a balance of protective, nutrient-dense foods.	-1
These foods include fresh fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains, lean meats, cold-water fish, eggs, low-fat dairy, soy products, and nuts and seeds.	-1
These foods provide the levels of nutrients necessary to maintain good health and prevent disease, in general.	-1
Watching caloric intake and exercising regularly to maintain a healthy weight.	-1
Some findings show that those with bipolar disorder may have a greater risk for being overweight or obese.	-1
The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends eating fatty fish at least two times a week.	-1
Good choices include: Albacore tuna, Herring, Mackerel, Salmon, Trout	-1
If you do not like fish, the AHA recommends taking 0.5 to 1.8 grams of fish oil per day as supplements.	-1
That way you will get enough dietary omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA).	-1
Getting only moderate amounts of caffeine and not stopping caffeine use abruptly	-1
Avoiding high-fat meals to lower the risk for obesity	-1
Watching your salt if you have high blood pressure but not skimping on salt if you are being prescribed lithium (low salt intake can cause higher levels of lithium in the blood)	-1
Following your doctor's instructions to stay away from foods that may affect your specific bipolar medication, if any	-1
In addition, you need to be wary of natural dietary supplements that can cause a drug-herb interaction.	-1
Doctors use antidepressant medications to treat PTSD - and to control the feelings of anxiety and its associated symptoms - including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as Paxil, Celexa, Luvox, Prozac, and Zoloft; and tricyclic antidepressants such as Elavil and Doxepin.	-1
Tranquilizers such as Ativan and Klonopin; mood stabilizers such as Depakote and Lamictal; and neuroleptics such as Seroquel and Abilify are sometimes used.	-1
Certain blood pressure medicines are also sometimes used to control particular symptoms.	-1
For example prazosin may be used for nightmares, or propranolol may be used to help minimize the formation of traumatic memories.	-1
Some studies suggest that early intervention with people who have suffered a trauma may reduce some of the symptoms of PTSD or prevent it all together.	-1
If you have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), your body may release too much adrenaline.	-1
Adrenaline is a hormone that can make you feel stressed and have nightmares.	-1
Prazosin blocks some of the effects of adrenaline released in your body.	-1
This may help reduce the nightmares and sleep problems you have with PTSD.	-1
Eating blueberries may lessen the symptoms of PTSD.	-1
Complex carbohydrates that are high in fiber and whole grains increase our level of tryptophan.	-1
Tryptophan is converted to serotonin (our "feel good" neurotransmitter), which elevates mood, suppresses appetite, and calms us down (that's why too many carbohydrates can make us sleepy).	-1
Low-carb dieters tend to become depressed about two weeks into the diet, right around the time their serotonin (feel-good neurotransmitter) levels have dropped due to decreased carbohydrate intake.	-1
There's a reason nutritionists recommend that 55 to 65 percent of your daily calories come from carbs.	-1
Foods high in protein like fish, poultry, meat, eggs, legumes, cheese, milk, or tofu contain the amino acid tyrosine.	-1
Tyrosine increases the production of dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrineneurotransmitters that increase your alertness and energy.	-1
Whey protein, found in milk, has been touted as a stress antidote.	-1
Omega-3 fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, and sardines, ground flaxseed, walnuts, canola oil, and omega-3-fortified foods improve memory and mood.	-1
In fact, people with chronically low levels of omega-3 fatty acids report more depression, pessimism, and impulsivity.	-1
Greasy choices that are high in saturated fat (e.g., burgers and fries) can lead to depression and dementia.	-1
One large, high-fat meal can almost instantly make you feel sluggish and fatigued because of the energy required to digest it.	-1
For problems with depression and anxiety, be sure to eat a variety of whole foods that contain these nutrients:	-1
Iron:A diet too low in iron can lead to depression, fatigue, and inattention.	-1
Thiamine: Insufficient thiamine (one of the B vitamins) makes people more introverted and inactive because they report fatigue, decreased self-confidence, and a poorer mood.	-1
Folic acid: Too little folic acid can lead to depression, especially in men.	-1
B-12: Low levels of B-12 may cause depression, especially in women.	-1
Selenium: Known to be important for eye health, a lack of selenium increases anxiety, irritability, hostility, and depression.	-1
Choline: People low in choline (a crucial neurotransmitter precursor) report impaired memory and concentration.	-1
There's some evidence that chronically low choline levels may contribute to Alzheimer's disease.	-1
Soybeans, egg yolks, butter, peanuts, potatoes, cauliflower, lentils, oats, sesame seeds, grass-fed beef, and flaxseed are great sources of choline.	-1
Vitamin D: Low levels of this important nutrient increase symptoms of depression and seasonal affective disorder.	-1
Vitamin D increases serotonin production.	-1
Finally, don't forget to get out there and move!	-1
Exercise is more effective than light therapy in treating depression, and it's just as effective as therapy and prescription drugs!	-1
If you are vulnerable to depression or seasonal affective disorder, exercise should be one of your mainstays.	-1
Cognitive and behavioral therapy.	-1
It can help with self-esteem.	-1
Relaxation training and stress management.	-1
These can lower anxiety and stress.	-1
Life coaching.	-1
It may help you set goals.	-1
Plus, it can help you learn new ways to stay organized at home and work.	-1
Job coaching or mentoring.	-1
This can help support you at work.	-1
It can help you have better working relationships and improve on-the-job performance.	-1
Family education and therapy.	-1
This can help you and loved ones understand ADHD better.	-1
It can also help you all find ways to lessen how much it affects everyone's life.	-1
Social skills training can sometimes be useful if a child shows serious issues dealing with social environments.	-1
As with BT, the goal of social skills training is to teach the child new and more appropriate behaviors.	-1
Medication management: Medication can include antipsychotic medications (to manage symptoms like delusions and hallucinations), mood stabilizers (for bipolar type), and antidepressants (for depressive type.)	-1
Psychotherapy: Individual cognitive behavioral therapy and family focused therapy can help individuals with schizoaffective disorder manage and learn to cope with their symptoms.	-1
Group therapy helps decrease social isolation.	-1
Life skills training: Learning social and vocational skills can help reduce isolation and improve the quality of life for individuals with schizoaffective disorder.	-1
Social skills training helps improve communication and improve interactions with others both at home and in the work setting, and vocational training helps people prepare for, find, and maintain employment.	-1
There is no cure for schizoaffective disorder, so long-term treatment is required.	-1
With proper treatment, people with schizoaffective disorder are able to work, improve their relationships, and avoid relapses.	-1
Smoking cessation and noncompliance with medications are special concerns.	-1
It is important to monitor treatment adherence for medications and other therapeutic activities.	-1
No specific diet is recommended for patients with schizoaffective disorder.	-1
Activity should be restricted if patients represent a danger to themselves or others or if they are gravely disabled; otherwise, patients should be encouraged to continue their normal routines and strengthen their social skills whenever possible.	-1
An acute episode of schizoaffective disorder may benefit from antipsychotics.	-1
Atypical antipsychotics include Olanzapine, Risperidone, Quetiapine and Amisulpride.	-1
In the treatment of depressive symptoms, medication may include antidepressants.	-1
There are many different types of antidepressants and you may be started on one of the newer one, a SSRI (Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor), such as Sertraline or Citalopram.	-1
In the treatment of manic symptoms, mood stabilisers such as lithium, sodium valproate and carbamazapine may be useful.	-1
The long-term treatment of schizoaffective disorder involves the use of antipsychotics with psychological (talking) treatments.	-1
For the manic type, often a combination of a mood stabiliser and an antipsychotic are prescribed.	-1
For the depressive type, a mood stabiliser and an antidepressant is preferred.	-1
This medication may rarely cause a condition known as tardive dyskinesia.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
Babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop symptoms including muscle stiffness or shakiness, drowsiness, feeding/breathing difficulties, or constant crying.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: metoclopramide.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of aripiprazole from your body, which may affect how aripiprazole works.	-1
Examples include carbamazepine, among others.	-1
Daily alcohol use, especially when combined with acetaminophen, may damage your liver.	-1
Acetaminophen passes into breast milk.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: ketoconazole.	-1
It is a good habit to carry glucose tablets or gel to treat low blood sugar.	-1
Beta-blocker medications (such as metoprolol, propranolol, glaucoma eye drops such as timolol) may prevent the fast/pounding heartbeat you would usually feel when your blood sugar level falls too low (hypoglycemia).	-1
Lifestyle changes that help promote healthy bones include increasing weight-bearing exercise, eating well-balanced meals containing adequate calcium and vitamin D, stopping smoking, and limiting alcohol.	-1
Women are usually prescribed a lower dose because the drug is removed from the body more slowly than in men.	-1
Older adults are usually prescribed a lower dose to decrease the risk of side effects.	-1
You may have trouble sleeping the first few nights after you stop taking this medication.	-1
This is called rebound insomnia and is normal.	-1
It will usually go away after 1-2 nights.	-1
Rarely, after taking this drug, people have gotten out of bed and driven vehicles while not fully awake ("sleep-driving").	-1
People have also sleepwalked, prepared/eaten food, made phone calls, or had sex while not fully awake.	-1
Often, these people do not remember these events.	-1
This problem can be dangerous to you or to others.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
Infants born to mothers who have taken sedative-hypnotics near the time of delivery may have undesirable effects such as breathing problems or withdrawal symptoms.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: sodium oxybate.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of zolpidem from your body, which may affect how zolpidem works.	-1
The risk of serious side effects (such as slow/shallow breathing, severe drowsiness/dizziness, decreased alertness) may be increased if this medication is used with other products that may also affect breathing or cause drowsiness.	-1
Your doctor may direct you to take a low dose of aspirin to prevent blood clots.	-1
This effect reduces the risk of stroke and heart attack.	-1
If stomach upset occurs while you are taking this medication, you may take it with food or milk.	-1
You should not take this medication for self-treatment of pain for longer than 10 days.	-1
You should not use this drug to self-treat a fever that lasts longer than 3 days.	-1
This medicine may cause stomach bleeding.	-1
Daily use of alcohol and tobacco, especially when combined with this product, may increase your risk for this side effect.	-1
Children and teenagers less than 18 years old should not take aspirin if they have chickenpox, flu, or any undiagnosed illness or if they have recently received a vaccine.	-1
In these cases, taking aspirin increases the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious illness.	-1
Older adults may be more sensitive to the side effects of this drug, especially stomach/intestinal bleeding and ulcers.	-1
Aspirin is not recommended for use during pregnancy.	-1
Aspirin passes into breast milk and may harm the nursing infant.	-1
Breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: mifepristone, acetazolamide, "blood thinners" (such as warfarin, heparin), corticosteroids (such as prednisone), methotrexate, valproic acid, herbal medications such as ginkgo biloba.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: clozapine, kava, sodium oxybate (also known as gamma hydroxybutyrate or GHB).	-1
This medication may rarely cause a severe intestinal condition (Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea) due to a type of resistant bacteria.	-1
This condition may occur during treatment or weeks to months after treatment has stopped.	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy especially near the expected delivery date because of possible harm to the unborn baby.	-1
This drug passes into breast milk.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: "blood thinners" (such as warfarin), dofetilide, hydantoins (such as phenytoin), live vaccines, methenamine, methotrexate.	-1
Although most antibiotics are unlikely to affect hormonal birth control such as pills, patch, or ring, a few antibiotics (such as rifampin, rifabutin) can decrease their effectiveness.	-1
This could result in pregnancy.	-1
This medication passes into breast milk in small amounts and is unlikely to harm a nursing infant.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: calcium-containing IV fluids.	-1
Although most antibiotics are unlikely to affect hormonal birth control such as pills, patch, or ring, a few antibiotics (such as rifampin, rifabutin) can decrease their effectiveness.	-1
This could result in pregnancy.	-1
WARNING:  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (including celecoxib) may rarely increase the risk of a heart attack or stroke.	-1
The risk may be greater if you have heart disease or increased risk for heart disease (for example, due to smoking, family history of heart disease, or conditions such as high blood pressure or diabetes), or with longer use.	-1
To decrease the chance of stomach upset, this drug is best taken with food.	-1
ccan sometimes occur with the use of NSAID medications, including celecoxib.	-1
Daily use of alcohol and tobacco, especially when combined with this medicine, may increase your risk for stomach bleeding.	-1
Caution is advised when using this drug for children with a certain type of arthritis (systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis) because they may be at increased risk for a very serious bleeding/clotting problem (disseminated intravascular coagulation).	-1
Before using this medication, women of childbearing age should talk with their doctor(s) about the benefits and risks (such as miscarriage, trouble getting pregnant).	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It is not recommended for use during the first and last trimesters of pregnancy due to possible harm to the unborn baby and interference with normal labor/delivery.	-1
This medication passes into breast milk.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aliskiren, ACE inhibitors (such as captopril, lisinopril), angiotensin II receptor blockers (such as valsartan, losartan), cidofovir, lithium, "water pills" (diuretics such as furosemide).	-1
Citalopram may cause a condition that affects the heart rhythm (QT prolongation).	-1
QT prolongation can rarely cause serious (rarely fatal) fast/irregular heartbeat and other symptoms (such as severe dizziness, fainting) that need medical attention right away.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Also, babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: other drugs that can cause bleeding/bruising (including antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, "blood thinners" such as warfarin).	-1
Aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding when used with this medication.	-1
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction.	-1
Many drugs besides citalopram may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation), including amiodarone, pimozide, procainamide, quinidine, sotalol, among others.	-1
Citalopram may cause a condition that affects the heart rhythm (QT prolongation).	-1
QT prolongation can rarely cause serious (rarely fatal) fast/irregular heartbeat and other symptoms (such as severe dizziness, fainting) that need medical attention right away.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
Also, babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant.	-1
Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and after treatment with this medication.	-1
It is important to eat a balanced, consistent diet while taking warfarin.	-1
Some foods can affect how warfarin works in your body and may affect your treatment and dose.	-1
Daily use of alcohol while using this medicine will increase your risk for stomach bleeding and may also affect how this medication works.	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy because of serious (possibly fatal) harm to an unborn baby.	-1
Your doctor may switch the type of medication you use during pregnancy.	-1
Since this drug can be absorbed through the skin and lungs and may harm an unborn baby, women who are pregnant or who may become pregnant should not handle this medication or breathe the dust from the tablets.	-1
Warfarin interacts with many prescription, nonprescription, vitamin, and herbal products.	-1
This includes medications that are applied to the skin or inside the vagina or rectum.	-1
The interactions with warfarin usually result in an increase or decrease in the "blood-thinning" (anticoagulant) effect.	-1
While taking warfarin, it is very important to tell your doctor or pharmacist of any changes in medications, vitamins, or herbal products that you are taking.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: capecitabine, imatinib, mifepristone.	-1
Aspirin, aspirin-like drugs (salicylates), and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen, celecoxib) may have effects similar to warfarin.	-1
These drugs may increase the risk of bleeding problems if taken during treatment with warfarin.	-1
Low-dose aspirin and related drugs (such as clopidogrel, ticlopidine) should be continued if prescribed by your doctor for specific medical reasons such as heart attack or stroke prevention.	-1
Many herbal products interact with warfarin.	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy due to the risk for harm to an unborn baby.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aliskiren, lithium, drugs that may increase the level of potassium in the blood (such as ACE inhibitors including benazepril/lisinopril, birth control pills containing drospirenone).	-1
WARNING:  Cyclosporine lowers your ability to fight infections.	-1
This may make you more likely to get a serious (rarely fatal) infection or make any infection you have worse.	-1
This effect may also increase your risk of getting certain types of cancer (such as skin cancer, lymphoma).	-1
Cyclosporine can also cause high blood pressure and kidney problems.	-1
Psoriasis patients who have had certain previous treatments (such as coal tar, methotrexate, radiation treatment, light treatment with PUVA/UVB) are at increased risk to develop skin cancer.	-1
Because of the risk of severe allergic reactions from intravenous cyclosporine, it should be used only in patients who are unable to take cyclosporine by mouth.	-1
This medication may contain alcohol.	-1
Caution is advised if you have liver disease, alcohol dependence, seizures, or any other condition that require you to limit/avoid alcohol in your diet.	-1
Caution is also advised if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.	-1
This medication passes into breast milk.	-1
Because of the possible risk to the infant, breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: coal tar, orlistat, other drugs that weaken the immune system/increase the risk of infection (such as natalizumab, rituximab, tofacitinib), drugs that may increase potassium levels (such as potassium supplements, certain diuretics/"water pills" including amiloride, spironolactone), tacrolimus.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of cyclosporine from your body, which may affect how cyclosporine works.	-1
Examples include boceprevir, bosentan, mifepristone, St. John's wort, telaprevir, among others.	-1
Low levels of potassium or magnesium in the blood may also increase your risk of QT prolongation.	-1
This risk may increase if you use certain drugs (such as diuretics/"water pills") or if you have conditions such as severe sweating, diarrhea, or vomiting.	-1
Your body may not absorb this drug as well if you also eat foods that are high in fiber or if you take certain medications.	-1
The balance of certain natural minerals in your blood (calcium, magnesium, potassium) can affect how this drug works in your body.	-1
Digoxin passes into breast milk.	-1
While there have been no reports of harm to nursing infants, consult your doctor before breast-feeding.	-1
This medication may increase your potassium levels.	-1
Before using potassium supplements or salt substitutes that contain potassium, consult your doctor or pharmacist.	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Lifestyle changes that may help this medication work better include exercising, stopping smoking, and eating a low-cholesterol/low-fat diet.	-1
This medication may increase serotonin and rarely cause a very serious condition called serotonin syndrome/toxicity.	-1
The risk increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin, so tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take (see Drug Interactions section).	-1
Older adults may also be more likely to develop a type of salt imbalance (hyponatremia), especially if they are taking "water pills" (diuretics).	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Also, babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: other drugs that can cause bleeding/bruising (including antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, "blood thinners" such as warfarin).	-1
Taking MAO inhibitors with this medication may cause a serious (possibly fatal) drug interaction.	-1
Most MAO inhibitors should also not be taken for two weeks before and at least 7 days after treatment with this medication.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin.	-1
Examples include street drugs such as MDMA/"ecstasy," St. John's wort, certain antidepressants (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine/paroxetine, other SNRIs such as desvenlafaxine/duloxetine), tryptophan, among others.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity may be more likely when you start or increase the dose of these drugs.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: cilostazol, clopidogrel, methotrexate (especially high-dose treatment), rifampin, St John's wort.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It is not recommended for use during the first and last trimesters of pregnancy due to possible harm to the unborn baby and interference with normal labor/delivery.	-1
Products that may interact with this drug include: aliskiren, ACE inhibitors (such as captopril, lisinopril), angiotensin II receptor blockers (such as losartan, valsartan), cidofovir, corticosteroids (such as prednisone), lithium, "water pills" (diuretics such as furosemide).	-1
Lifestyle changes (such as weight loss if needed, strengthening/conditioning exercises) may help improve your flexibility and joint function.	-1
Before using this medication, women of childbearing age should talk with their doctor(s) about the risks and benefits.	-1
It may slightly increase the risk of birth defects if used during the first two months of pregnancy.	-1
Also, using it for a long time or in high doses near the expected delivery date may harm the unborn baby.	-1
Babies born to mothers who use this drug for a long time may develop severe (possibly fatal) withdrawal symptoms.	-1
The used patch still contains enough fentanyl to cause serious harm, even kill a child or pet, so fold it in half with the sticky sides together and discard properly.	-1
Along with its benefits, this medication may rarely cause abnormal drug-seeking behavior (addiction).	-1
This risk may be increased if you have abused alcohol or drugs in the past.	-1
This medication may increase serotonin and rarely cause a very serious condition called serotonin syndrome/toxicity.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: certain pain medications (mixed opioid agonist-antagonists such as pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol), opioid antagonists (such as naltrexone).	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of fentanyl from your body, which may affect how fentanyl works.	-1
Examples include cimetidine, nefazodone, azole antifungals including itraconazole/ketoconazole, calcium channel blockers such as diltiazem/verapamil, HIV drugs such as nelfinavir/ritonavir, macrolide antibiotics including clarithromycin/erythromycin, rifamycins including rifampin, certain anti-seizure medicines including carbamazepine, among others.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin.	-1
Some examples are street drugs such as MDMA/ "ecstasy," St. John's wort, certain antidepressants (such as SSRIs like fluoxetine/paroxetine, SNRIs like duloxetine/venlafaxine), among others.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity may be more likely when you start or increase the dose of these drugs.	-1
This product may contain inactive ingredients (such as paraben preservatives), which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.	-1
This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: other alpha blocker drugs (such as prazosin, terazosin).	-1
If you are taking this medication twice a day, your doctor may direct you to take it in the morning and at noon.	-1
If you are taking fluoxetine for premenstrual problems, your doctor may direct you to take it every day of the month or just for the 2 weeks before your period through the first full day of your period.	-1
The risk increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin, so tell your doctor or pharmacist of all the drugs you take (see Drug Interactions section).	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
The liquid form of this medication contains alcohol.	-1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes, alcohol dependence, or liver disease.	-1
Some medications (such as metronidazole, disulfiram) can cause a serious reaction when combined with alcohol.	-1
Older adults may also be more likely to develop low sodium in the blood, especially if they are taking "water pills" (diuretics).	-1
Fluoxetine can stay in your body for many weeks after your last dose and may interact with many other medications.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: drugs removed from your body by certain liver enzymes including carbamazepine, vinblastine, antiarrhythmics such as propafenone/flecainide, tricyclic antidepressants such as desipramine/imipramine, other drugs that can cause bleeding/bruising including antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, "blood thinners" such as warfarin.	-1
Many drugs besides fluoxetine may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation), including pimozide and thioridazine, among others.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin.	-1
Examples include street drugs such as MDMA/"ecstasy," St. John's wort, certain antidepressants (including other SSRIs such as citalopram/paroxetine, SNRIs such as duloxetine/venlafaxine), tryptophan, among others.	-1
Folic acid is safe to take during pregnancy when used as directed.	-1
Folate is naturally found in leafy green vegetables, organ meats (liver, kidney), citrus fruits, and other foods.	-1
Folic acid is added to enriched grain products such as bread, pasta, and cereal.	-1
Antacids containing aluminum or magnesium may interfere with the absorption of this medication.	-1
Therefore, if you are also taking an antacid, it is best to take gabapentin at least 2 hours after taking the antacid.	-1
A small number of people who take anticonvulsants for any condition (such as seizures, bipolar disorder, pain) may experience depression, suicidal thoughts/attempts, or other mental/mood problems.	-1
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk.	-1
However, similar drugs pass into breast milk.	-1
Breast-feeding while using this medication is not recommended.	-1
Beta-blocker medications (including metoprolol, propranolol, glaucoma eye drops such as timolol) may prevent the fast/pounding heartbeat you would usually feel when your blood sugar level falls too low (hypoglycemia).	-1
Colesevelam can decrease the absorption of glipizide.	-1
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: mifepristone, oritavancin, telavancin.	-1
This medication is sometimes used together with other drugs that have "blood thinning" or anti-platelet effects such as aspirin, clopidogrel, or warfarin.	-1
However, if your doctor has directed you to take low-dose aspirin to prevent heart attack or stroke (usually at dosages of 81-325 milligrams a day), you should continue taking the aspirin unless your doctor instructs you otherwise.	-1
Cigarette smoking decreases blood levels of this medication.	-1
It is best to avoid taking this medication within 4 hours of your bedtime to prevent having to get up to urinate.	-1
Cholestyramine and colestipol can decrease the absorption of hydrochlorothiazide.	-1
This medication works best if used at evenly spaced intervals.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: drugs to treat erectile dysfunction-ED or pulmonary hypertension (such as sildenafil, tadalafil), riociguat.	-1
You can then swallow it with saliva or water.	-1
You do not need to take this medication with water.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
However, since untreated seizures are a serious condition that can harm both a pregnant woman and her unborn baby, do not stop taking this medication unless directed by your doctor.	-1
Products that may interact with this drug include: sodium oxybate.	-1
For infants or children who cannot swallow whole tablets, crush the tablet and mix in 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 milliliters) of water, and give using a spoon or dropper right away.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: "blood thinners" (such as warfarin), digoxin, sucroferric oxyhydroxide.	-1
This medication may lead to a loss of too much body water and minerals (dehydration).	-1
Furosemide should be used only when clearly needed during pregnancy.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aliskiren, cisplatin, cisapride, digoxin, ethacrynic acid, lithium.	-1
Certain medications (such as cholestyramine, colestipol, colesevelam, antacids, sucralfate, simethicone, iron, sodium polystyrene sulfonate, calcium supplements, orlistat, sevelamer, among others) can decrease the amount of thyroid hormone that is absorbed by your body.	-1
Escitalopram may cause a condition that affects the heart rhythm (QT prolongation).	-1
QT prolongation can rarely cause serious (rarely fatal) fast/irregular heartbeat and other symptoms (such as severe dizziness, fainting) that need medical attention right away.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
The liquid form of this medication may contain sugar and/or aspartame.	-1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes, phenylketonuria (PKU), or any other condition that requires you to limit/avoid these substances in your diet.	-1
They may also be more likely to lose too much salt (hyponatremia), especially if they are also taking "water pills" (diuretics) with this medication.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Also, babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
Many drugs besides escitalopram may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation), including amiodarone, pimozide, procainamide, quinidine, sotalol, among others.	-1
In addition to eating a proper diet (such as a low-cholesterol/low-fat diet), other lifestyle changes that may help this medication work better include exercising, losing weight if overweight, and stopping smoking.	-1
Rarely, statins may cause or worsen diabetes.	-1
This medication must not be used during pregnancy.	-1
Atorvastatin may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Therefore, it is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication.	-1
It is unknown if this medication passes into breast milk.	-1
Because of the possible risk to the infant, breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: gemfibrozil, telaprevir, tipranavir plus ritonavir.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of atorvastatin from your body, which may affect how atorvastatin works.	-1
Examples include colchicine, telithromycin, certain azole antifungals (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole), among others.	-1
Before using potassium supplements or salt substitutes that contain potassium, consult your doctor or pharmacist.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug are: aliskiren, certain drugs that weaken the immune system/increase the risk of infection (such as everolimus, sirolimus), lithium, drugs that may increase the level of potassium in the blood (such as ARBs including losartan/valsartan, birth control pills containing drospirenone), sacubitril.	-1
This product may contain inactive ingredients (such as propylene glycol), which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.	-1
It can cause a serious (possibly fatal) abnormal heartbeat and other symptoms (such as severe dizziness, fainting, shortness of breath) that need medical attention right away.	-1
Brugada syndrome may cause death suddenly.	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
However, since untreated mental/mood problems (such as bipolar disorder) can harm a pregnant woman and her unborn baby, do not stop taking this medication unless directed by your doctor.	-1
Your doctor may need to adjust your diabetes medication, exercise program, or diet.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of metoprolol from your body, which may affect how metoprolol works.	-1
Examples include lumefantrine, propafenone, quinidine, SSRI antidepressants (such as fluoxetine, paroxetine), St. John's wort, among others.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aliskiren, certain drugs that weaken the immune system/increase the risk of infection (such as everolimus, sirolimus), lithium, drugs that may increase the level of potassium in the blood (such as ARBs including losartan/valsartan, birth control pills containing drospirenone), gold injections, sacubitril.	-1
Some products have ingredients that could raise your blood pressure.	-1
A very serious reaction may occur if you are getting injections for bee/wasp sting allergy (desensitization) and are also taking benazepril.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: mifepristone.	-1
This medication is sometimes used together with other drugs that have "blood thinning" or anti-platelet effects such as aspirin, clopidogrel, or warfarin.	-1
When these combinations are prescribed by your doctor, you will require closer monitoring to minimize your risk of bleeding.	-1
Metformin may be used with lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise to prevent diabetes in people who are at high risk for becoming diabetic.	-1
Many drugs can affect your blood sugar levels, making it more difficult to control your blood sugar.	-1
This drug may reduce blood flow to your hands and feet, causing them to feel cold.	-1
Smoking may worsen this effect.	-1
Dress warmly and avoid tobacco use.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: fingolimod.	-1
Kidney problems can sometimes occur with the use of NSAID medications, including naproxen.	-1
Daily use of alcohol and tobacco, especially when combined with this medicine, may increase your risk for stomach bleeding.	-1
This medication may increase the risk of bleeding when taken with other drugs that also may cause bleeding.	-1
Examples include anti-platelet drugs such as clopidogrel, "blood thinners" such as dabigatran/enoxaparin/warfarin, among others.	-1
If needed, antacids may be taken along with this medication.	-1
Rarely, proton pump inhibitors (such as esomeprazole) have caused vitamin B-12 deficiency.	-1
The risk is increased if they are taken every day for a long time (3 years or longer).	-1
PRECAUTIONS:  Before taking esomeprazole, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other PPIs (such as lansoprazole, omeprazole); or if you have any other allergies.	-1
Some products need stomach acid so that the body can absorb them properly.	-1
Esomeprazole decreases stomach acid, so it may change how well these products work.	-1
Some affected products include atazanavir, erlotinib, nelfinavir, pazopanib, rilpivirine, certain azole antifungals (itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole), among others.	-1
USES:  This medication is used before physical activities (such as exercise, sexual activity) to prevent chest pain (angina) in people with a certain heart condition (coronary artery disease).	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: drugs used to treat erectile dysfunction-ED or pulmonary hypertension (such as sildenafil, tadalafil), certain drugs to treat migraine headaches (ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine), riociguat.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: rosiglitazone.	-1
USES:  Insulin aspart is used with a proper diet and exercise program to control high blood sugar in people with diabetes.	-1
Not eating right after a dose of this insulin may lead to low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).	-1
This medication may also be used to help quit smoking.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
The liquid form of this medication may contain alcohol.	-1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes, alcohol dependence, liver disease, or any other condition that requires you to limit/avoid alcohol in your diet.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: arbutamine, "blood thinners" (such as warfarin), disulfiram, thyroid supplements, anticholinergic drugs (such as benztropine, belladonna alkaloids), certain drugs for high blood pressure (drugs that work in the brain such as clonidine, guanabenz, reserpine).	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin.	-1
Examples include street drugs such as MDMA/"ecstasy," St. John's wort, certain antidepressants (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine/paroxetine, SNRIs such as duloxetine/venlafaxine), among others.	-1
Many drugs besides nortriptyline may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation in the EKG), including amiodarone, cisapride, dofetilide, pimozide, procainamide, quinidine, sotalol, macrolide antibiotics (such as erythromycin), among others.	-1
Proton pump inhibitors (such as pantoprazole) may increase your risk for bone fractures, especially with longer use, higher doses, and in older adults.	-1
Talk with your doctor or pharmacist about ways to prevent bone loss/fracture, such as by taking calcium (such as calcium citrate) and vitamin D supplements.	-1
A product that may interact with this drug is: methotrexate (especially high-dose treatment).	-1
Some products need stomach acid so that the body can absorb them properly.	-1
Pantoprazole decreases stomach acid, so it may change how well these products work.	-1
Some affected products include ampicillin, atazanavir, erlotinib, nelfinavir, pazopanib, rilpivirine, certain azole antifungals (itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole), among others.	-1
Older adults may also be more likely to develop a type of salt imbalance (hyponatremia), especially if they are also taking "water pills" (diuretics).	-1
This medication is not recommended for use during pregnancy.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby, and babies born to mothers who have used it during the last 3 months of pregnancy may sometimes develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: thioridazine, other drugs that can cause bleeding/bruising (including antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, "blood thinners" such as warfarin).	-1
Aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding when used with this medication.	-1
However, if your doctor has directed you to take low-dose aspirin for heart attack or stroke prevention (usually at dosages of 81-325 milligrams a day), you should continue taking it unless your doctor instructs you otherwise.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: repaglinide, tipranavir.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of clopidogrel from your body, which may affect how clopidogrel works.	-1
Examples include certain acid reducers (proton pump inhibitors/PPIs such as omeprazole, esomeprazole), fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, cimetidine, fluconazole, ketoconazole, voriconazole, etravirine, felbamate, and ticlopidine, among others.	-1
This medication must not be used during pregnancy.	-1
Pravastatin may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Therefore, it is important to prevent pregnancy while taking this medication.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: colchicine, gemfibrozil.	-1
You may mix the medication in juice or applesauce before taking it.	-1
This medication may contain sugar and/or alcohol.	-1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes, liver disease, or any other condition that requires you to limit/avoid these substances in your diet.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aldesleukin, mifepristone, drugs that can cause bleeding/bruising (including antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, "blood thinners" such as dabigatran/warfarin, NSAIDs such as aspirin/celecoxib/ibuprofen).	-1
Lifestyle changes that may help reduce the risk of bone problems include doing weight-bearing exercise, getting enough calcium and vitamin D, stopping smoking, and limiting alcohol.	-1
Some products have ingredients that could raise your blood pressure or worsen your heart failure.	-1
A very serious reaction may occur if you are getting injections for bee/wasp sting allergy (desensitization) and are also taking lisinopril.	-1
This medication must not be used to test for pregnancy.	-1
Some Canadian brands of this product may contain inactive ingredients (such as soybean), which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.	-1
Some people who are allergic to peanuts may also be allergic to soy.	-1
This medication must not be used during pregnancy because it may harm an unborn baby, especially during the first 4 months of pregnancy.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: aminoglutethimide, drugs affecting liver enzymes that remove medroxyprogesterone from your body (such as rifampin, St. John's wort, azole antifungals including itraconazole, certain anti-seizure medicines including carbamazepine/phenobarbital/phenytoin).	-1
Your doctor may need to adjust your medication, diet, and exercise when you start or stop fluoxetine.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
Some medications (such as metronidazole, disulfiram) can cause a serious reaction when combined with alcohol.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
Also, babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop withdrawal symptoms such as feeding/breathing difficulties, seizures, muscle stiffness, or constant crying.	-1
Since untreated mental/mood problems (such as depression, panic attacks, obsessive compulsive disorder) can be a serious condition, do not stop taking this medication unless directed by your doctor.	-1
If you have to wake up before that, you may have some memory loss.	-1
Rarely, after taking this drug, people have gotten out of bed and driven vehicles while not fully awake ("sleep-driving").	-1
People have also sleepwalked, prepared/eaten food, made phone calls, or had sex while not fully awake.	-1
Often, these people do not remember these events.	-1
This problem can be dangerous to you or to others.	-1
Your risk is increased if you use alcohol or other medications that can make you drowsy while taking temazepam.	-1
Temazepam must not be used during pregnancy.	-1
It may harm an unborn baby.	-1
The risk of serious side effects (such as slow/shallow breathing, severe drowsiness/dizziness) may be increased if this medication is used with other products that may also affect breathing or cause drowsiness.	-1
This drug may also cause significant weight gain and a rise in your blood cholesterol (or triglyceride) levels.	-1
Risperidone may rarely cause a condition known as tardive dyskinesia.	-1
In some cases, this condition may be permanent.	-1
Low levels of potassium or magnesium in the blood may also increase your risk of QT prolongation.	-1
This risk may increase if you use certain drugs (such as diuretics/"water pills") or if you have conditions such as severe sweating, diarrhea, or vomiting.	-1
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.	-1
Babies born to mothers who have used this drug during the last 3 months of pregnancy may rarely develop symptoms including muscle stiffness or shakiness, drowsiness, feeding/breathing difficulties, or constant crying.	-1
Caution is advised if you have diabetes or any other condition that requires you to limit/avoid sugar in your diet.	-1
This medication may rarely make your blood sugar level rise, which can cause or worsen diabetes.	-1
This drug may also cause significant weight gain and a rise in your blood cholesterol (or triglyceride) levels.	-1
These effects, along with diabetes, may increase your risk for developing heart disease.	-1
The risk of QT prolongation may be increased if you have certain medical conditions or are taking other drugs that may cause QT prolongation.	-1
Many drugs besides quetiapine may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation), including amiodarone, moxifloxacin, procainamide, quinidine, sotalol, thioridazine, among others.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of quetiapine from your body, which may affect how quetiapine works.	-1
Examples include azole antifungals (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole), rifamycins (such as rifampin), drugs used to treat seizures (such as carbamazepine, phenytoin), among others.	-1
You may swallow your dose plain, dissolve it in certain liquids, or mix it with a spoonful of soft food (such as applesauce) before swallowing.	-1
Nateglinide can cause low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) especially if you are taking other medicines for diabetes.	-1
Consuming large quantities of alcohol, not getting enough calories from food, or doing unusually heavy exercise may also lead to low blood sugar.	-1
It is a good habit to carry glucose tablets or gel to treat low blood sugar.	-1
Your doctor may need to adjust your diabetes medication(s).	-1
Certain medications (such as cholestyramine, colestipol, colesevelam, antacids, sucralfate, simethicone, iron, sodium polystyrene sulfonate, calcium supplements, orlistat, sevelamer, among others) can decrease the amount of thyroid hormone that is absorbed by your body.	-1
If you have nausea, it may help to take this drug with food.	-1
Other pain relievers (such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen) may also be prescribed.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of tramadol from your body, which may affect how tramadol works.	-1
Examples include quinidine, azole antifungals (such as itraconazole), HIV drugs (such as ritonavir), macrolide antibiotics (such as erythromycin), rifamycins (such as rifampin), drugs used to treat seizures (such as carbamazepine), among others.	-1
Some forms of this drug should be taken with food but others may be taken with or without food.	-1
It is very important to continue to follow your doctor's advice about diet and exercise.	-1
This product may contain inactive ingredients (such as soy), which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: "blood thinners" (such as warfarin).	-1
Daily alcohol use, especially when combined with acetaminophen, may damage your liver.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity increases if you are also taking other drugs that increase serotonin.	-1
Examples include street drugs such as MDMA/"ecstasy," St. John's wort, certain antidepressants (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine/paroxetine, SNRIs such as duloxetine/venlafaxine), among others.	-1
The risk of serotonin syndrome/toxicity may be more likely when you start or increase the dose of these drugs.	-1
It is important to take your doses at least 6 hours apart or as directed by your doctor to decrease your risk of having a seizure.	-1
This medication should not be used if you are suddenly stopping regular use of sedatives (including benzodiazepines such as lorazepam), drugs used to treat seizures, or alcohol.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: pimozide, tamoxifen.	-1
Alprazolam is not recommended for use during pregnancy due to the potential for harm to an unborn baby.	-1
This drug passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant.	-1
Therefore, breast-feeding while using this drug is not recommended.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: kava, sodium oxybate.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of alprazolam from your body, which may affect how alprazolam works.	-1
Examples include azole antifungals (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole), cimetidine, certain anti-depressants (such as fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, nefazodone), drugs to treat HIV (delavirdine, protease inhibitors such as indinavir), macrolide antibiotics (such as erythromycin), rifamycins (such as rifabutin), St. John's wort, drugs used to treat seizures (such as carbamazepine, phenytoin), among others.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: "blood thinners" (such as warfarin), cyclosporine, danazol, gemfibrozil.	-1
Other medications can affect the removal of simvastatin from your body, which may affect how simvastatin works.	-1
Examples include certain azole antifungals (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole), boceprevir, cobicistat, colchicine, delavirdine, macrolide antibiotics (such as clarithromycin, erythromycin), nefazodone, HIV protease inhibitors (such as nelfinavir, ritonavir), telaprevir, telithromycin, among others.	-1
Some products that may interact with this drug include: apomorphine, tramadol.	-1
Many drugs besides ondansetron may affect the heart rhythm (QT prolongation), including dofetilide, pimozide, procainamide, amiodarone, quinidine, sotalol, macrolide antibiotics (such as erythromycin), among others.	-1
